We have nice earnings growth, but it's
being pushed by mag 7.
>> Until this bull market is over, probably
these growth stocks lead the way.
>> There's this euphoria that's taken over
the equity market. We still do feel
>> [music]
>> confident at the stage we're in coming
out of earning season.
>> The story is still positive. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Anne Marie
Hoerdern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good [music] morning. Good morning for
our audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday, the shutdown begins to
bite. Another day of DC dysfunction
hitting airport [music] capacity across
the country as the data blackout leads
to another payrolls Friday without the
payrolls. One man could be set for a
major [music] payday. Tesla shareholders
signing off on the biggest compensation
package ever. Elon Musk got a winning
approval for that $1 trillion potential
payout over the next 10 years [music]
should he meet 12 specific metrics
including expanding his company really
dramatically. He said he wanted a big
enough ownership stake in Tesla to be
comfortable that the robot army he was
developing didn't fall into the wrong
hands, but not so large that he couldn't
be fired if he went quote crazy. So, a
real discussion here [music] around the
ambition behind this company.
>> That stock is up by 3/4 of 1% in the
premarket. That's one payroll. Let's get
to the others. We're not going to be
talking about this much. Meeting
estimates -23K. Typically, the number
would drop at 8:30 [music] Eastern time.
Not going to get it. The shutdown though
begins to bite. Taking out capacity
across this country, across 40 or so
airports over the coming weeks [music]
and months. This is where the pressure
starts to build.
>> About 700 flights will be canceled today
across some of the biggest [music]
airlines across 40 of the US biggest
airports. And basically, [music] what's
going to happen is it's a 4% reduction
of flight capacity mandated by the FAA
because they don't have the capacity
[music] to make sure this is going to be
safe. And then it increases by 1% until
we get to a 10% reduction
>> [music]
>> next week. This is why it bites because
the previous long for shutdown 2018-2019
>> [music]
>> is when we saw a lot of chaos at the
airports that finally there was blinking
and the government was reopened. We
already [music] know the consequences
for the Federal Reserve. One official
was speaking yesterday. Didn't look like
he wanted to cut interest rates [music]
anytime soon. Austin Goolsbee of
Chicago. When things get foggy, slow
down. That's not a man that's willing to
vote for a rate cut [music] without the
data.
>> Yeah, and Cleveland Fed President Mester
also came out and talked about how
inflation is more important for her
right now than the labor market and
talking about how rates are barely
restrictive. How much is this
responsible for the momentum unwind that
we [music] have seen over the past
couple of weeks? Is there a sense that
the Fed is not going to deliver on the
rate cutting cycle that a lot of people
were expecting that were fueling [music]
some of the risk appetite that we had
seen in markets?
>> We're over waiting data we'd otherwise
ignore.
When was the last time you saw headlines
on Challenger job [music] cuts? I mean,
can we just talk a take a step back here
and think about this? Challenger job
cuts are typically a footnote in any
trading session and they were the
headline [music] yesterday. And that's
because we don't have the data this
morning.
>> There also was another metric looking at
potential planned layoffs that also got
a lot of attention. There's [music] so
much noise around these data. Just to
talk about the Challenger job cuts.
Those are planned layoffs that sometimes
don't materialize. The fact that they
have not cohered with other metrics
including ADP [music] payroll support,
the fact that they don't include job
creation was ignored, spurned as people
were looking for an excuse that this was
a labor market that was cracking. And
frankly, it was supported by some of the
earnings that we [music] saw from
frankly, fast casual retailers. Like the
idea of fast food companies signaling
there was some weakness. People are
cobbling together narratives with
whatever they have.
>> We're down to this. That's what drives
the bond market now in America. Equity
futures this morning down by another
tenth of 1% heading towards a weekly
loss [music] on the S&P 500. Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with Jeff Yu
of BNY as stocks look to rebound.
[music]
Dan Ives of Wedbush Securities as Tesla
backs Elon Musk's trillion-dollar pay
package and Priya Misra of JP Morgan and
why the economy is still on course for a
soft landing. We begin this hour with
stocks little changed as markets look to
close out a volatile week on Wall
Street. Jeff Yu of BNY writes the
following, "The labor market is
continuing to slowly deteriorate. We
think a December rate cut is still
likely." Jeff joins us now for more.
Jeff, welcome to the program, sir. No
payrolls at 8:30 Eastern time, but just
play along. What would you expect we'd
see at 8:30 Eastern time and how
relevant would it be to this stock
market?
I think the market's just going to
continue the assumptions of from recent
trends. It's sort of is a no fire, no
higher economy. But if you're a
policymaker with an employment mandate,
I think you're going to focus on the no
higher side a bit more. And it's a sign
that the economy overall needs some
support. So, I think you know, that's
why our base case is for further easing.
The issue with the market right now is
given where positioning is, given where
valuations are, they probably need a bit
more than easing just on a one-off basis
to ensure that financial conditions
remain loose enough to sustain current
levels of holdings.
>> Jeff, if this was an old school game
show and behind door number one was ISM
services and behind door number two was
Challenger job cuts, any day of the week
I am taking door number one, an ISM
services. Why are we over waiting the
data we got in the last 24 hours?
I don't think it's a case of over
waiting per se. It's just the bar is so
low for reacting to any form of labor
market data right now. Put it this way,
markets don't really need an excuse to
adjust their holdings right now. And
it's not just in the US. You're seeing
in APAC right now, especially with some
of the markets more associated with a
strong US economy. Look at Korea, for
example. Now, that's a market we're very
focused on right now, perform quite
poorly throughout the week. So, the bar
is low for that kind of a reaction. So,
I think it's where a bit more vigilance
is needed, not just for investors, but
for policymakers as well. Jeff, you went
there and it is the question for me this
morning, which is what is driving this
momentum unwind? Is it the idea that the
Fed isn't going to cut as much as people
expected? Is it just simply that people
are looking for any excuse whatsoever
because they're realizing they got ahead
of their skis in valuations?
I think it's more skewed towards the
latter right now or the fear that they
are
too much you know, focusing on
valuations at this point across the
board. So, the trick is nearby now or
right
or rather the balance is to ensure that
it doesn't become a self-fulfilling
narrative because if that unwind begins
to snowball, then you can run into a
situation where you have a sharp
deterioration in sentiment such that
when the shutdown ends and it will end
and when we get data, things may not
have been as bad, but then the market's
going to run ahead of itself in the
opposite direction. So, getting that
balance right is really imperative right
now. You can tell whatever story you
want depending on which anecdotes you
look at. This has been true for the
entire the entirety of the year. And I'm
just wondering whether you see enough
evidence that a Fed rate cut could cause
that broadening out in equity markets,
frankly across markets that a lot of
people have been hoping for.
If there isn't this weakness that you
think will be revealed after we do get
some data.
I think the hope is as you state when we
do get data, there is a consistency in
place. The Fed is easing and it's on
track in accordance with how the economy
is functioning right now. Going back to
the point of no higher, no fire economy.
And also the AI narrative, you know,
where that concentration risk can be
sustained. I don't think the two can be
separated as much. But on a global basis
right now, we look at international
holdings of US assets. You know, that's
a bit more I think no flight of feet,
right? They can actually move out quite
quickly and they are actually a bit more
overweight compared to domestic
investors right now. So, I think from
the Fed's point of view, they need to
also appreciate how important the US
market is to global conditions. There is
no decoupling, especially in terms of
financial markets. Everyone's taking the
lead from the Fed and from US markets
right now. Jeff, do you still think they
can go in December though if we do not
get government data, especially on CPI?
Jonathan mentioned Austin Goolsbee. He's
talking about how he would feel very
uneasy without getting any inflation
prints before deciding on what to do at
that meeting.
So, we appreciate that. And I think you
know, if you look at what the BOE's
done this week, it's a thinking along
those lines as well. You know, focusing
you know, on the CPI side, on the
inflation side. But the Fed has a labor
market mandate. And for any central
banker, it's do no harm. So, if there is
a perception that by not moving, that
could actually cause no further
deterioration or no improvement in the
labor market, I still think on balance
you know, there's enough of a vote
within the Fed to ease. And they will
alas you know, have to rely on those
anecdotes for the time being as well.
Well, Governor Waller was on with us
recently and it wasn't so much the
anecdotal second tier, third tier labor
market data that he was concerned about.
He really said there's no substitute
when it comes to inflation. What are you
looking at to track what is going on
with inflation in the United States?
So, I think you know, from the US you
know, on the one side you have the
private sector surveys you know, to
match things. But going back to the
earnings reports, you know, what are
those consumer facing, those household
facing companies you know, saying about
their own margins and what they're
saying about household demand? And is
household demand, are consumers not
spending in in response to prices? I
think that element is important as well.
Sometimes you don't appreciate the macro
inputs you know, in corporate earnings
reports enough. So, I think that as the
earning season you know, gradually now
comes to an end we'll be looking you
know, at you know, what the individual
companies are saying about the household
and their response function, their
reaction function to prices. I think
that side of it is important as well.
And the Fed will be looking at that
quite closely.
>> Jeff, are we seeing pushback in some
areas of the economy? Lisa at the top of
the program mentioned fast casual
restaurants. Certainly, I can name a few
where they're struggling to pass on high
cost to consumers. Are you seeing more
than that?
So, you know, right now we're not really
seeing a reaction to that. I think
people are cognizant of it. But if I
speak to clients, are they really
focusing on that at this point?
Don't really see it. And there's this
old adage, you know, the US stock
market, you know, what the large caps,
what the earnings reporting may not also
not reflect what the US economy is. So,
this new K-shaped economy, I think that
is a fear. So, you know, whereby the
larger corporates in particular, they're
reporting the reaction function of US
households with purchasing power, with
consumption power. And if you look at
you know, what the lower end of the
economy is saying right now, that could
be a different story. So, I think we
need in terms of where the gap is for
the labor market for the reaction to
inflation is perhaps in what the lower
deciles of the US economy. So, that
perhaps again is where the Fed really
needs to go a bit deeper and react
accordingly. I think they're going to
air on the cautious side. Yes, maybe
headline inflations are high. The higher
income deciles are spending, but for the
rest they are struggling right now and
they need support in the form of lower
rates. Hey Jeff, thank you buddy.
Appreciate it. Jeff you there at BNY out
of London today looking for another rate
cut later in December. I love that we're
hinging our view of the economy based on
how much protein is in your sweetgreen
salad or how much the scoop of Chipotle
chicken is in your burrito. I know that
that sounds flippant, but how much are
these specific issues where people had
been going and paying higher prices for
products and felt like they were getting
cheated on various levels with respect
to the amount of different products. And
so, you start to look at the rhetoric
and that's gets that much more muddy.
Are we really hinging the entire
economic outlook to how much protein
goes in your salad? Because ultimately
that might be what we're doing.
>> Look, that salad company's got a
problem. You know, I've heard a lot of
people say the same thing about that
salad company.
>> It's actually that was part of the
issue. That's not about the consumer.
It's about going public. But how do you
know which one is which, right? How do
you decipher the not enough protein from
the oh no, we have a problem here?
>> Well, on this one I can draw a firm
distinction for you.
That's the only feedback I've had here
in New York.
That salad company's got some problems.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yohara Allen
with more. Hey Yohara. Hi John. Senate
Republicans are planning to vote later
today to end the government shutdown.
Majority Leader John Thune said his
party aims to lay out a new funding
[music] dates and additional spending
bills to the house proposal. Democrats
are expected to block the vote, but both
parties are preparing to stay in
Washington through the weekend to try
[music] and force an agreement.
But as the shutdown drags on, airlines
across the US have started canceling
hundreds of flights. The four largest
carriers have canceled about 700 flights
scheduled for Friday after the US
Transportation Department ordered
airlines to cut 10% of [music] flight
capacity across 40 major airports. The
reductions apply to flights between 6:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m. local time at [music]
each airport.
And China's exports unexpectedly fell in
October for the first time since
February. [music]
This is global demand failed to offset
the slump in US shipments. With the US
reducing tariffs on Chinese goods, trade
between [music] two countries could pick
up through year end. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John. Yohara, thank
you. Better news in the political world
here in New York. So, let's get to it.
It's the post on X just moments ago.
[music] Kathy Hochul is the worst
governor in America. Under her failed
leadership, New York is the most
unaffordable state in the nation with
the highest taxes, highest energy,
utilities, rent, and grocery bills. When
New Yorkers were looking for leadership
from our governor, she bent. Elisa
Stefanik this morning. [music] And
during the race to be governor, I'm not
surprised. They have been talking about
how their internal polls are showing
that they could show a robust showing
against Governor Hochul. Also, what did
[music] she say to us recently in a
Bloomberg News interview? If you have a
mayor Mom money, New Yorkers are going
to look for a check. And they're going
to look for that [music] check in
Albany. They're looking for the check
when it comes to a governor. That's what
I was going to point to [music] this
idea of how much is this a direct
response to Mayor Mom money and say, oh
yeah, you want to raise taxes? Guess who
holds the purse strings. And this is
really setting up that clash.
>> More on that story later [music] on
today. Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning to all. Futures
down by about 2/10 of 1% on the S&P. Up
next, the shutdown begins to bite.
The American people are unfortunately
about to start suffering some very
[music] real consequences because of the
shutdown. After 30 days of this thing,
40 days of this thing, you're going to
start seeing very real travel delays.
That conversation [music] up next with
Brian Gardner of State Street. Live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
Equity markets [music] are down on the
week. They are down on the session.
We're negative by 3/10 of 1% on the S&P
500. On the Nasdaq 100 this morning,
down by 0.5.
Under Savannah this morning, the
shutdown begins to bite.
The American people are unfortunately
about to start suffering some very real
consequences because of the shutdown.
After 30 days of this thing, 40 [music]
days of this thing, you're going to
start seeing very real travel delays.
That's because the Democrat government
shutdown. [music]
You're going to start seeing SNAP
benefits run out. That's because the
Democrat government shutdown. They
[music] should stop this charade and
open up the government. So, here's the
latest this morning. The Senate planning
to vote on a new government funding
compromise as the fallout from the
shutdown increases. Bloomberg's Jack
Fitzpatrick joins us now for more. Jack,
good morning to you. Are we seeing those
consequences already this morning?
We have seen the consequences stack up.
That's for sure. At this point, I think
we're past the shutdown in which nothing
matters and nothing happens on Capitol
Hill. And in the last couple of days,
we've seen the normal shutdown in which
in which case members of Congress
realize this is very bad and they ought
to start trying to find an off-ramp
begin. And that's been the last 48 hours
or so. The FAA news, the cancellation of
some flights is a pressure point. The
SNAP nutrition benefits being cut is a
very significant pressure point. Now,
there was a court ruling yesterday
directing the Trump administration to
fully fund SNAP. They are appealing
that. There's a lot of uncertainty
there. There's uncertainty with military
paychecks. And of course, a lot of
federal workers not in the military have
not gotten paid.
So, that doesn't really cover though the
core question of the shutdown, which is
the Affordable Care Act subsidies that
are set to expire at the end of the
year. Democrats continue to say that if
there's not an offer on the table to
solve that problem in some way, they're
not budging. And so, it does look like
today's vote, the 15th vote in the
Senate to end the shutdown will fail.
But it does seem that there's a bit more
motivation on Capitol Hill the last
couple of days. And while we're not at
the finish line, members of Congress are
I think sincerely running the race to
try to find some sort of solution.
>> Well, Jack, motivation for who? Which
members of Congress? Who are you
tracking?
There is clearly motivation for
Republicans. Democrats have kind of dug
in after the Tuesday election results.
They feel like that's a bit of a mandate
for them. Republicans have been looking
for sweeteners unrelated to the health
subsidies. They've said, look, we can
attach some full funding bills including
the funding bill that covers SNAP
nutrition instead of just doing a
continuing resolution to have agencies
running on autopilot. They've said on
federal workers, the people who were
laid off can certainly be recalled back
to their jobs. People will get back pay.
There's a more conciliatory tone from
Republicans following the Tuesday
election results. And I would say
there's been some fatigue on the
Democratic side from moderates who have
said the pace of negotiations have
picked up. Both sides are looking for an
out. I do think that after the Tuesday
election results, which looked much
better for Democrats, the pressure has
risen a bit disproportionately on
Republican senators. Jack, thank you,
sir. Appreciate it. The latest down in
DC from Jack Fitzpatrick. To extend the
conversation, Brian Gardner of State
Street writes the following. Some
Democrats will likely see Tuesday's
election as a validation of their
shutdown strategy. The chances of the
shutdown lasting into next week and
beyond have increased. Brian, welcome to
the program. Are you suggesting that
those wins are more relevant than the
potential chaos across the country's
airports?
In the minds of some Democrats, yes. I
mean, not all Democrats. I don't think
you Jonathan that you can paint with too
broad a brush. I think I think there are
some more aggressive Democrats, some
more firebrand type Democrats who see
Tuesday's results as a validation of
their strategy. And they think they have
the wind at their back and they are
going to double down and push for more.
Then you do have some moderates
who want a solution. And and look, I I I
think you can argue that you know,
Tuesday's election results gave us a
split view of the Democratic Party
nationally.
The firebrands won in New York, but the
more moderates won in in Virginia and in
New Jersey. So, there is a bit of a
split among Democrats about what their
strategy is going forward. And in
Virginia, the exit poll said that the
shutdown was weighing on the workers,
those individuals that went out to vote.
Obviously, they house so many of these
federal workers. Can you see Virginia
senators signing up for clean
resolution?
You know, it's a great question, Anne
Marie. I mean, because
Virginia is, you know, among the two one
of the two states that's ground zero
along with Maryland in terms of
government workers.
But the two Democratic senators have
have pretty much held strong.
I haven't detected that they're breaking
from the rest of the group yet and
joining the more moderates who who are
are pushing for a reopening. I may be
missing something on that, but they are
those are two people that I would I
would look to very closely to see
if there's going to be a break among
Democrats, if there's going to be real
progress in these talks. You would think
that that senators Kaine and Warner
would be front and center.
Would it just be enough as an off-ramp
for the Democrats to get a vote? Senate
Majority Leader Thune put a vote on the
floor for the enhanced expiring
healthcare subsidies. Or do they
actually need a plan to extend them?
That's the big question.
I I again, I I think it shows the split
in among the Democratic Party. I think
this I think for some centrists, they
would be okay with it. But the
firebrands for now are pressuring them
not to.
Not to give in on that. And so so far
I think the the louder voices in the
party, the more aggressive voices are
the in the party are winning out you
know in in terms of party unity and
keeping everybody on the same page. At
some point though if we get into the
weekend or next week and we have those
those air airline delays and the cuts in
social safety net programs really start
to get to the bone.
Maybe then you'll see a change in in
tactics and strategy among the
Democrats. But I got to say I mean it
it's been impressive to watch
them stay unified whether you agree with
their policy or not.
Their their their sense of unity has
been pretty impressive throughout this.
What's your sense about the reduction in
flights that we are seeing right now and
the mandate coming from the FAA? Do you
think that this is actually a safety
issue or do you think this is trying to
raise the pressure to get some sort of
conclusion sooner?
Oh I I wouldn't be that cynical.
At least I know. I mean look and and I'm
somebody who you know my flight wasn't
canceled last night but I I ran into a
bunch of delays. So I mean I think
travelers are really going to start to
feel it but no I I there's politics
going on here. You know let's go back to
Casablanca shocked that there's gambling
going on. I'm shocked that there's
that there's politics going on here. I'm
sure there is a level of safety
at work here but there's a level of
politics as well. So you're not that
cynical but it could be true. Brian I am
[laughter] curious.
But I am curious. You know there was
this move yesterday that I thought was
pretty telling when senators Republican
senators pushed back against President
Trump. And after that breakfast they
signaled that they were not going to
nuke the filibuster akin to what he was
looking for. How big of a deal is that?
In longer term it it's a big deal
because it has ramifications for both
parties going forward. In the short term
you know I I think it's starting to
signal that and we have to read this in
the context of Tuesday's results that
some Republicans are going to start to
look in terms of self-preservation and
they're not going to be as locked up
with the White House as they have been.
And they're probably going to feel a
little bit more
looking longer term to what's in their
best interest not just
what their relationship is like with the
White House at any given moment. Brian
if you got a hard out is the one on the
calendar?
No. I mean you know Jonathan I could I
could give you you know Monday or
Tuesday but you know I I was so wrong at
the beginning of the shutdown when I
really thought it was going to be a
shorter
stalemate than it has proven to be.
And I I think not just me but talking to
people up on the hill I think they've
given up on trying to to handicap this
as well. I I thought it you know after
Tuesday I thought it would go into the
weekend.
Um
I think maybe we get into early next
week and there's an out but you know who
knows at this point. I think I think a
lot of us have been have underestimated
how long this would go on. Brian thank
you. Brian Gardner of Safeway. It would
be unthinkable surely to think that this
would stretch into Thanksgiving week.
That would be honestly catastrophic. And
I'm talking not about necessarily
personal lives at stake. I'm talking
about people coming with pitchforks to
Washington DC saying I can't go have
turkey with my grandmother who hasn't
seen me in about you know 12 months.
You're telling me that? Absolutely not.
There's too many issues right now
snowballing snap FAA a host of issues
that at some point either side needs to
blink. And to Jack's point no one is
blinking just yet but we have seen
acceleration of conversations in a
bipartisan way on potentially what
off-ramps could be on the Senate side to
reopen the government.
>> Starting to see just a little bit of
movement here. Who knows when this ends.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 dropping
again we're down by third of 1% coming
into Friday poised for the biggest
weekly loss since early October adding
to those losses so far this morning.
Coming up on the program some good news
for Elon Musk. Dan Ives of Wedbush joins
us [music] as Tesla shareholders are
putting full faith in the CEO. Elsewhere
Danny's got your morning movers Expedia
soaring on strong travel demand that
stock is higher by 16%. [music] Make
sense of it for me Bramer. No I can't.
Where is the US consumer?
>> I was looking at Expedia and thinking
[music] to myself someone's looking for
discounts and they're traveling
forget it I'm gone. Still spending on
travel. That conversation just around
the corner kind of. From New York City
>> [music]
>> you're watching Bloomberg TV.
>> You know Wall Street is a tough [music]
gig and I'm always happy when someone's
got a new seat. So shout out to Chris
Harvey. This came from Isabelle Lee
>> [music]
>> and Alex Seminova just yesterday. The
former head of equity strategy at Wells
Fargo Chris Harvey joining CIBC
as the firm's head of equity [music] and
portfolio strategy. Chris I think had
one of the calls of the year at the
start of the year looking for 7K on the
[music] S&P 500 just north of that.
Stuck with it through the drawdown of
April and look how close we are to that
number this morning.
>> So he can come on in his new seat and he
[music] can explain to us what's going
to happen next year because you know
it's always good when you get it right
but then what have you done for me
lately? Let's get your 2026 pro
>> [music]
>> expectation so that we can measure up
what we're going to look into.
Congratulations to Chris and the whole
of the team over there. Equity futures
this morning if you're interested in the
price action negative by 0.4% adding to
this week's losses we're down across the
board here on the Nasdaq [music]
negative by 0.5. In the bond market
yields on a two-year and a 10-year
pretty stable through the week on the
week. But the amount of tension and the
chop we've seen over the last few
sessions [music] has been unreal. On the
one side decent data on the other side
bad data. On the one side Fed doves on
the other side Fed hawks. There's a lot
of tension in that tug-of-war at the
moment.
>> of the problems is there is no data
point that really takes on the same
preeminence as say nonfarm [music]
payrolls which is the gold standard to
be applied and a lot of people can go
into that. It's sort of do we really put
ADP versus Challenger? [music]
Are we really talking about Chipotle
versus Delta? Are we really trying to
make these corollaries [music]
that aren't perfect and that don't
necessarily have weight one more than
another or they have traditionally just
people are ignoring [music] them because
they're looking for any narrative to
possibly support what they're they're
feeling their vibes really seem [music]
to be pointing at.
>> It's cherry-picking season for
economists across the country. In the
bond market the moment two is at 3.55
[music] 10s at 4.09% as we count you
down to the opening bell. Let's get you
some single names some morning movers
let's cross over to Danny for more. Hey
Danny. Hey John just worth [music]
checking on Tesla this morning. It was
up as much as 1% but now it has started
to fall as the future session moves
[music] on and generally stocks fall.
We're down now at this moment a tenth of
1% after yesterday Elon Musk getting his
$1 trillion pay package approved. The
company said that 75% of shareholders
voted for it. Elon Musk himself saying
it's not [music] a new chapter it is a
new book at Tesla. Elsewhere we had some
travel related earnings all of them
looking very robust. Expedia being one
of them. Look at the move on the share
15.7%
higher. They raised their outlook saying
not only was the current quarter good
but the momentum in October and going
into the holidays looks strong too and
they're not seeing any impact whatsoever
from the government shutdown. Along with
Expedia [music] another name for travel
we also heard from was Airbnb similar
for them really robust quarter. They
exceeded expectations when delivering
[music] what their outlook was. One of
the big things that analysts also
pointed to and Airbnb [music]
itself did was a new program that they
started in the summer which is reserve
now pay later. So kind of a buy now pay
later type of flavor product for them
and apparently that also really fueled
bookings especially in North America. So
those shares up more than 4% in the
premarket [music] John. Danny thank you.
Travel stocks looking good. Good move
there for Airbnb. On the radar this
morning one of our top stories Tesla
shareholders approving the $1 trillion
pay package for the CEO Elon Musk. The
record-breaking deal putting Musk on the
path to becoming the world's first
trillionaire but first requires him to
deliver on some very ambitious targets.
Elsewhere airlines are scrambling
already canceling hundreds of flights
over shutdown related shortages. The FAA
requiring airlines to cut daily domestic
operations by 4% forcing travelers to
scramble as the political standoff
continues. And finally the White House
reportedly set to block Nvidia from
selling its latest scaled-down AI chips
to China. People familiar with the
matter telling The Information Nvidia is
still working on a scaled-down version
of the Blackwell chip in hopes of
gaining approval. This comes after what
we heard from Jensen Huang yesterday in
the Financial Times where he came out
and said that because of some of the
government support in China they were
going to take the lead when it came to
artificial intelligence and different
new technologies. A real question here
about whether this is blowback from the
White House whether they have to come
out and explain that they're with the
policy. It's hard to know exactly what's
going on here what the parameters are
what Nvidia really is expecting say a
year out in terms of what they can sell
to China.
>> it really interesting that all of a
sudden Jensen Huang is talking about the
fact that China's going to win the AI
race. In April he told me that China was
behind now they're ahead. When what? The
administration is not blacking backing
what his policy proposal would be which
is to send the Blackwells or the
watered-down Blackwells. The Treasury
secretary said this is the crown jewel
of the United States. And the
administration is saying we're not
sending the crown jewel we're not
sending the lab-grown version of that
crown jewel either to China right now.
And you have seen a change of tone from
Jensen almost immediately.
>> Following that interview in the FT and
that piece from the Financial Times in
the last 24 hours I think it was a
follow-up statement from Nvidia kind of
backing away from some of the comments
because they could see how this was
being interpreted and it's not a good
look for the Nvidia boss.
>> It really raises the question who's in
charge and who's actually advising
President Trump and how much is the
White House coming out with this partly
also sort of a smackdown saying hey
listen we're in charge here cuz it is a
bad look and you do wonder if he's going
to continue to back away.
On Nvidia this morning. Let's turn back
to Tesla. Shareholders overwhelmingly
approving a $1 trillion pay package for
the CEO, Elon Musk.
I take this I thank the the Tesla board
for their immense support. We have a
fantastic board, fantastic group of
shareholders. What we're about to embark
upon is not merely a new chapter of the
future of Tesla, but a whole new book.
Musk now tasked with delivering on major
targets for Tesla to achieve the full
payout. Dan Ives of Wedbush saying, "Now
it's about driving the most important
chapter in Tesla's history with an
autonomous future ahead of us." Dan
joins us now for more. Dan, good
morning. Great to be here. Big step
back, okay? Just for anyone who might be
confused, there's no check written out
right now for a trillion dollars.
>> There's a major bar to clear. Just walk
us through the targets that the board
has now set for the CEO, Elon Musk.
>> What's interesting about 2018? I mean,
when those targets everyone's like
there's no way Tesla would hit them, and
they exceeded them. So, look, I think it
just comes back to when it looks at
robotics and you look at autonomous, I
mean, this is the most important
chapter, I think, in the history for
Tesla. So, you need Musk as a leader, as
ultimately the key ingredient to get
there. Look, you start to get the three,
four, five trillion as a market cap, and
also based on a lot of those sort of,
you know, targets to hit. I believe it's
all on the table. I mean, this is not
These are not targets that are just
ridiculous. Obviously, extremely
optimistic, but I think Tesla is going
to be able to get there as they execute.
So, let's talk about those targets. 1
and 1/2 trillion current market cap
going up to 8 and 1/2 trillion dollars
over the next 10 years. That's one of
the requirements, and that comes with a
transformation of what this company
actually is. Can you describe what the
ambition is and how feasible it is to
get there in the current iteration of
Tesla? Sure. So, look, I think more and
more, I mean, this isn't AI It's an AI
story going forward, and I think the
reality is like when it comes to
autonomous and robot taxi, cyber cabs, I
think they're going to own 80% of the
global market when it comes to
autonomous. And I think that is sort of
the future where, to put some numbers,
let's say you're talking about million
and a half, two million vehicles per
year. Okay, you start to look at what
they could ultimately do. Five, six,
seven million when it comes to robots,
when it comes to autonomous. I mean,
that's Look, from a physical AI
perspective, the two most important
companies in the world is Nvidia and
it's Tesla. And that's why this was
important because Musk is ultimately
really going to be the key driver to get
there, and I think investors recognize
that that 75%
was a huge vote of confidence, and I
think basically they're saying, "You're
our leader. Lead us there." The
commentary from the leader was
interesting when he said that he wanted
a big enough ownership stake in Tesla to
be comfortable that the robot army he
was developing didn't fall into the
right hands, but not so large that he
couldn't be fired if he, quote, went
crazy. Why couldn't other companies
involved in AI and some of the
technological transformation that could
lead to robot armies make the same
argument? Say, "We need to be in control
because we don't want it to fall into
the wrong hands." No, it's a great
point. Well, look, there's only one Elon
Musk, and I think there's a recognition
where, especially when it comes to XAI,
where I think they're going to have,
call it, 15, 20% ownership, but
eventually I think XAI will be a part of
Tesla. So, Musk needs to have that 25%
voting rights because it's his view, he
needs to have control given the AI
future. And look, we've seen things at
OpenAI and others in terms of issues
that they've had, but for I think for
Musk and for Tesla, this is an important
chapter relative to where they think
they're going next.
>> Dan, can we talk about what's going on
right now? He sold only 750 vehicles for
October in Europe in Germany. That's
less than half of what he sold last
year. This is a very mature market
compared to the US. How bleak is it out
there right now for the EV demand?
Look, Europe is obviously I mean, that
continues to be just really a mini
disaster for them relative to from a
demand perspective. Look, if you have
globally, I mean, you had a very strong
3Q. I actually think there's
stabilization that's happening across
the board going into next year, two
million vehicles. But the reality is
going forward, this is an AI story. I
mean, you're focused on autonomous,
you're focused on how many, you know,
cities you're going to get into 30, 35
in the next, call it, six, nine months.
When you actually have full-scale volume
production of Optimus, that's the story
here for Tesla, but it all starts with
Musk. You need to make sure he's CEO for
the five, six, seven years to get him
there. Is there a concern that he's
going to go flirt again with politics?
Look, and then obviously, you know, the
back and forth that we've seen in
politics, I think it just comes down to
like he's learned, I think, a hard
lesson in his Beltway stint, and I think
the reality is is that he's wartime CEO
right now. And I think that is a
recognition, whether it's Jensen Nvidia,
whether it's Zuck at Meta, you know,
obviously Palantir. It's an arms race
that's happening, and that's why for
Tesla, this is such an important part of
the AI future.
>> Meta has the product right now, though.
There is some key man risk, obviously,
but they have the product. Nvidia, key
man risk show, but they have the
product. What you're describing is a
different situation. You're talking
about key man risk, and we've yet to
develop the product, which the whole
valuation, almost 90% of it, ultimately
hinges on. Now, I know that you're super
optimistic on the robot taxi business,
but we're not there yet, are we? But I
think we're going to be sitting here in
nine, 12 months from now, and you're
there. In other words, I think from a
volume production perspective, this is
something where cyber cabs you're
actually going to have volume
production. I think regulatory you're
going to have much more on the federal
side rather than the state, and that's
going to be clear from a where I think a
regulatory perspective. Look, and that's
That's now the goal. You talk about a
trillion, now it's like the goal is like
for Musk step by step, brick by brick to
get there, and I think he does, and I
think this continues to be the most
undervalued AI story in the market
relative
be viewed.
>> That's the trillion dollar man. Should
we talk about the billion dollar man
over at Wedbush? Congratulations. Thank
you.
>> ETF I hear is taking in a billion. Yeah,
so you know, took in over a billion, and
obviously, you know, less than five
months. And obviously, we've talked
about on the show, I mean, our overall
view on the ETF is just a true way to
play AI in terms of the IVZTF, the 30
names. And I think that's one where
investors have, you know, around the
world shown confidence, so it's a huge
success.
>> I've got you up 30% since inception
earlier this summer. That's not bad.
Well, now that you now that you actually
mentioned it. Look, I mean, part I mean,
outperforming the Nasdaq. Yeah, I mean,
look, it's obviously huge outperformance
of the Nasdaq.
>> What kind of money is it attracting
right now? Where's the cash coming from?
>> Look, I think 75, 75, 80% retail,
probably, you know, a little more
institutional that we're starting to
see. But obviously, being in Asia the
last month, I mean, that, you know,
every country you see investors that own
the IVZTF because, look, the reality is
it's a way to play AI in true the 30
names that we view in terms of chips,
software, cybersecurity, and across the
board.
>> Just quickly, what's the relationship
between the stocks in your coverage as a
sell-side analyst and the stocks that go
into the ETF? Yeah, I mean, there's a
good amount of names that we cover that
are in there, but there's a lot of names
that we don't cover that are in there,
and that Look, it speaks to my view is
that this is going to continue being an
evolution in terms of the AI revolution.
But those that say bubble, the haters,
every Look, we are in
>> Point taken. No, no, I'm saying No,
>> [laughter]
>> there's the haters around the whole No,
but the reality is is that we are in the
second, third inning
>> [laughter]
>> I'm really in the fourth. of this game.
No, I'm in the fourth, and it continues
to be 10:30 in the AI party that started
at 9:00 p.m., and that goes to 4:00 a.m.
The bears are watching it through the
windows.
>> [laughter]
>> Going to see it, Dan. Congratulations.
Thank you. Dan Ives of Wedbush. Let's
get you an update on news worldwide with
your Bloomberg Brief. Let's cross over
to Yohai for more. Hi, Yohai. Hi, John.
Elise [music] Stefanik is entering the
race for governor of New York. In a post
on X, she called New York Governor Kathy
Hochul the worst governor in the country
and pledged [music] to make the state
affordable and safe. The Republican
congresswoman was weighing a governor
run for months, according to sources.
The New York gubernatorial election is
set for November 2026. [music]
Meanwhile, a federal judge ordered the
Trump administration to release full
funding for November SNAP benefits
today. Nearly 42 [music] million
Americans have no access to the benefits
during the government shutdown. The
White House had agreed to pay for
partial benefits using emergency cash,
but said it would take weeks, [music] if
not months.
And OpenAI CEO Sam Altman pledging the
company does not have or want government
[music] guarantees for its for its data
centers. This after a top executive at
the ChatGPT maker suggested [music] the
government may help finance the
technology. OpenAI has committed [music]
to spend $1.4 trillion
on data centers and chips. That's your
Bloomberg Brief, John. Yohai, thank you.
More from Yohai in the next hour. Up
next on the program, steering towards a
soft landing.
The soft landing can happen, but if they
do start increasing the pace of layoffs,
you have a direct impact on consumer
spending. That's [music] up next with
Priya Misra of JP Morgan Asset
Management, live from New York City this
morning. Good morning. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Down on the week [music] on the S&P 500,
potentially the biggest weekly loss
going back to early October. On the
Nasdaq 100, [music] we're down by 2.8%.
Close out those levels, the worst week
since the start of April. Remember that?
Brutal. Nasdaq 100 this morning down
another third of 1%. The Russell, small
[music] caps down by 0.3.
Under surveillance this morning, staring
towards a soft landing.
The soft landing can happen where
[music] we have great productivity,
great net net, wages stay the same,
uh earnings stay strong, but if they do
start increasing the pace of layoffs,
you have a direct impact on consumer
spending. If we're in the sustained
environment where 10-year yields are
roughly in the 4% range, [music]
this is a good opportunity to add
income. It's a historic assist this
morning. Investors struggling to reach
consensus on the state of the economy
with alternative data sending mixed
signals. Priya Misra of JP Morgan
writing, "We remain in a soft landing,
but I don't see any signs of the economy
reaccelerating and risks are skewed to
the downside on the labor market." Priya
joins us now for more. Priya, good
morning. Morning. No payrolls data is at
8:30 Eastern time, so we're talking
about Challenger job cuts. Now,
typically, we did not Challenger job
cuts. How much is that data actually
worth?
So, I mean, a lot of this, ADP. You have
to look at the totality of data. I do
miss payrolls. Let's spend a second
saying
it was good data. I just never thanked
it before, and now 2 months in a row we
haven't had it. And not just the
headline, we asked, "Well, we have a lot
of data." Like, somebody asked me the
other day, "You probably have nothing to
do." I said, "I have more work because
I'm now looking at the totality." So,
you have to look at ADP, the details,
Challenger. We always looked at it, but
you had like the king of all data with
payrolls, and we don't have that. But we
are looking We're looking at earnings
releases. The We're still in that soft
landing, and I think that's why the
Fed's been cutting. And now the Fed's
saying, "Well, we need more data." So,
you know, a data-dependent Fed,
data-dependent market is now looking at
more creative ways of of data, but I
think there's a fairly consistent
picture of There are these structural
positives, right? You talk about the
soft landing. Companies are solid, and
they're adapting to all these macro
shocks, tariffs, immigration. They're
managing, and that's why earnings have
been rock solid. We haven't even seen
the you know, like, leverage go up. So,
it's not as if they're they're borrowing
to to to make ends meet.
The margins are strength staying strong.
Consumer spending is strong, but we have
that K-shaped consumer, K-shaped
corporate sector, and that's the
consistent theme, but the labor market
is slowing. And we're still in that low
higher low fire, but how long can that
last as the labor supply grows,
you know, people graduate from college.
They need jobs. So, I don't know if it
can last forever. For now, we're in a
soft landing. I think owning credit,
fixed income is doing what it's supposed
to do.
So, I think you know, that's how we're
sort of positioned.
>> the Federal Reserve. The consensus view
of the Fed at least a month ago, the
bias of the Fed, people believed this
bias existed anyway, is that they
wouldn't deviate from the dot plot, even
if they didn't get the economic data.
You mentioned the Fed and maybe that
view changing. Is that just Austan
Goolsbee at the Chicago Fed, or is that
the core of the committee now? I think
there is no core. I think there's a huge
division in the Fed. And it's not just
in terms of risks around the labor
market, risks around inflation. It's
also on the neutral rate. I mean, I was
concerned about this debate that we're
having at the Fed maybe 6 months from
now. It's happening a little earlier,
but if you look at the neutral rate,
there are people saying it's 2.75 and 4.
We're right at 4. So, I think what Chair
Powell said was we need data to to tell
us which way to lean. I think both sides
at the Fed, the the division, both are
equally vocal. There are those that are
highlighting that the labor market's
slowing, and then there are those that
are saying, "Well, inflation's still
above target, and we don't know what's
neutral." Financial conditions are easy,
and so you can almost argue it will Fed
cuts make a difference? They do make a
difference, particularly if that neutral
rate is at three. So, I think that
reaction function I think the Chair
Powell said there is no clear reaction
function. I think there was a slight
shift. The data lack of data You can
tell that the Fed might be in my camp,
like starved of data and missing it.
So, if we don't get data, I think they
might even pause, but I do think
economic outlook matters as much as the
reaction function. We got a sense of a
more hawkish reaction function, but if
the economic data continues to challenge
as part of it, if the layoffs start,
this is not a job market where layoffs
will get absorbed quickly, and I think
that's where the Fed then Maybe they
don't cut in December, then they cut
more aggressively next year if the
economy continues to slow. I put a put
into ChatGPT write a poem about nonfarm
payrolls, and I think it broke ChatGPT
because it still hasn't come up with the
poem. So, hopefully, we can get that for
you. I am curious, though. Do you think
that if the Fed does not cut rates in
December because of a lack of data, that
it will prompt you to want to go into
longer-term bonds? That on the margins,
it will hamper growth more significantly
and tamp down any inflation risk? I do
think if they don't cut and they suggest
that this is it, then you can have
concerns around maybe long end bonds
were supposed to price in a weaker
economic outlook. You'll get some froth
out of the market. People have only
bought an asset because I think the
Fed's going to cut rates, then they
start to move away. But I do think if
they don't cut, they're still going to
keep that put alive. Meaning, they're
going to say, "Look, if the economy
slows down, we're data dependent. We can
cut aggressively." This Fed has not been
shy under Chair Powell. They've hiked at
75 increments. They cut 50 last year,
but they are a data-dependent Fed.
>> How much of an unwind do you expect in,
say, some of the riskier assets, whether
it's riskier credit, or certainly what
we've seen with meme stocks? I know
you're
might not be cutting as aggressively and
might be closer to done than people had
expected. I mean, there is a lot of
liquidity in the system. And the Fed
stopping QT was part of that as well.
Now, they're not increasing the size of
the balance sheet. But I wonder, do
people look at the size of the balance
sheet growing, which I think is going to
happen? Either it's December or next
year because of reserves. I think
reserves are close to neutral. We We
talk about neutral Fed funds, we should
talk about neutral reserves as well.
We're there. So, I wonder if okay, the
Fed's not,
you know, cutting, but the Fed's growing
the balance sheet. So, you might get you
know, liquidity staying high, and it can
sort of propel more of that. But I think
in general, we talked about Remember
cockroaches just not that long ago? I
mean, there are excesses in, I would
say, every market. And our job is to
find them and make sure we minimize the
cockroaches, and that requires a lot of
credit work.
You know, where you have to understand
the company, and I think it's people who
maybe not doing that that might be then
at risk of some of that froth coming out
because, you know, we don't know what
neutral is. I mean, I think it's closer
to three, but what if it is closer to
four because financial conditions,
liquidity is high. And so, you may not
get a big decline in interest rates, and
that's when you want to make sure you
own the companies that don't need lower
rates to make their payments. Priya, you
talk about this in your notes. How are
you thinking about the risk of what's
going on at the Supreme Court in terms
of AEPA?
There was a lot of discussion. I think
the bond market got really nervous. And
you know, these are large numbers. If
the Supreme Court does rule these
tariffs illegal, we're talking 90, 100
billion of tariff numbers. That's a
large number.
But look at the you know, the the
Treasury has the cash. Cash balance has
been growing, so I don't see a case
where they have to suddenly come out and
issue a lot. I think interest rates are
all saying the deficit's a problem. The
deficit is a long-term problem. I mean,
we're at 7% deficit to GDP. That's going
to go to 7.2.
I think the bond market slightly
overreacted. The president It's the
signature policy of the president. He
said it's the most beautiful word in the
dictionary for him. So, if it is struck
illegal here, they've got section 122,
232, 301. I mean, I'm no constitutional
lawyer or lawyer, but I think they're
going to find ways. It's going to be
harder and maybe not as blanket, and
Congress needs to be involved, but I
think you're still going to get those
tariffs. I don't see the tariff number
really going down. So, I think if the
market overreacts, I think that's an
opportunity on any Supreme Court
headline. Priya, it's good to see you.
Thanks for dropping by. Priya Misra of
JP Morgan Asset Management on this bond
market 10s this morning just short of
4.1% higher on the session by single
basis point. Up next, we'll catch
[music] up with Michelle Weaver of
Morgan Stanley, Tom Fitzwilliam of TD
Cowen, Liz Everett Kroszner of the Bank
of America Institute, and Claudia Sahm
of New Century Advisors. [music] The
second hour of Bloomberg Surveillance is
up next.
What we see is an economy which is
likely to slow down.
>> There's going to be some pressure at the
very, you know, lower tier of the
consumer.
>> Indicators are not showing a labor
market where the bottom is falling out.
>> Crosscurrents of information and data
are making it a tough job. We're in the
muddled middle, and that's
>> [music]
>> that's the issue.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Annmarie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now,
and your scores look like this. Equity
[music] futures adding to this week's
losses, down on the week, down on the
session. We're down another tenth of 1%
on the S&P 500. On the Nasdaq, we're
down by 0.3. In the bond market, it has
been super volatile through the week.
Yields up a lot, then down a lot. On the
week, just about [music] unchanged. 10s
at 4.1%, 2s at 3.56. This morning's
headline, there won't be [music] one at
8:30 Eastern time. No payrolls once
again. Yeah, and I was actually looking
up an ode to nonfarm payrolls because I
do think it is important. So, month by
month, the cycle turns through booms and
fears and payrolls uh
going on. Anyway, you know, you don't
need to read the whole thing. ChatGPT
did a great job. But I am just curious,
how much this is causing the volatility
that we're seeing in other data points
that aren't necessarily taking on any
cloud relative to one another and
whipsawing people's perception of what
this economy is really doing. [music]
>> Waking up to notes, people describing
the bond market action of yesterday and
referring to Challenger job cuts. Not to
say that Challenger job cuts doesn't
point to what's happening right now.
I've got no idea if it really does or
not. Just to say that typically people
wouldn't even reference that data point
[music] a month two months ago and here
we are waiting that almost over waiting
that and comparing it to ISM services
early this week.
>> Yeah, and what we're seeing right now is
people taking the Challenger job cuts,
putting that into an AI narrative where
AI is coming for your jobs and then
pairing that with some of the
the fast food restaurants that are
coming [music] out with some bleak
expectations and creating a narrative to
give them the willies at night. And this
is sort of a question of how much does
this highlight the bias in market to
find a problem after valuations [music]
got very high and how much does that say
about where we are in the market cycle
more than anything about the US economy.
>> Sentiment might be shifting somewhat.
That's a notable point. Shifting because
we don't have the economic data and at
the moment we won't get it 8:30 Eastern
time either. Why? The government's still
shut down. The pressure's going to build
[music] on the administration and on the
Democrats that are holding out as well
as these airports start to face some
major cuts to capacity and we're seeing
that play out this morning. You don't
know what you got till it's gone. That
was when it comes with government data
and that's also when it comes to
potentially what consumers [music] may
feel in terms of what is going on. It's
a snowball effect what's going on with
snap, more than 40 million Americans,
what's going on at airport airports.
They're cutting capacity, mandated cuts,
4% and then you add on an extra 1% every
single day. So [music] by this time next
week we could be looking at a 10%
reduction of capacity. All of this going
into Thanksgiving holiday season. This
is a pressure point [music] that
basically ended the previous longest
shutdown of 2018-2019. Potentially it's
going to end it this time. Frank Gardner
of State Farm in the last hour not
willing to put a hard out on any of
this. Said it can continue [music] into
next week, maybe beyond and we started
having a conversation about no really
seriously Thanksgiving week. This could
stretch into Thanksgiving [music]
week. Potentially, although I will say
they are taking another vote today.
Their 15th likely not going to pass, but
there has been more action in terms of
bipartisan communication what an offer
amp could be. [music] I think the big
issue is whether or not is a vote on
extension of enhanced afford health care
credits is enough or do they actually
need to see a [music] plan and then that
means the White House is going to have
to get involved. From I've not a chance.
Don't mess with people's stuffing. Just
[music] just imagine that. No way.
Pitchforks. People will come. Lighted
torches. It will be White House. It will
be well no.
>> [music]
>> I'm
>> [laughter]
>> Absolutely not. The California? No, I
don't know. Yeah.
>> Yeah, you know, take an extra day off.
Make it make it a road trip. The
president was saying yesterday how
energy prices are down.
>> their breakfast at the TV screen.
It's going to No one is on your side
right now. No, no, no, no, no. I totally
agree. It's going to be a problem. I
think this is what ends up making sure
that the government [music] reopens. It
has to be Thanksgiving and it has to be
air traffic controllers.
>> Watch this space. Coming up on the
program Michelle Weaver of Morgan
Stanley with big tech valuations under
scrutiny. Tom Fitzgerald of TD Cowen
joins us as the government shutdown
disrupts air travel and Claudia Sahm of
New Century Advisors with the Fed's
mandate on an economic tightrope. We
begin this hour with stocks turning
negative. Michelle Weaver of Morgan
Stanley writing the S&P is currently
trading at 23 times earnings and
valuations peaked during the tech bubble
at 24 times. However, we're in a
different environment, a very different
one today versus then. Michelle joins us
now for more. Michelle, good morning.
Good morning. Thank you for having me.
>> moment so different compared to those
moments? Absolutely. So on the surface
totally understandable how people are
drawing comparisons. We're trading at 23
times in change. Tech bubble valuations
peaked around 24 times and then we had
the build out of telecom. Now we have
the build out of AI. On the surface you
see those comparisons, but when we dig
under the surface on valuation, we have
a very different index today than we had
then. So for example, if we adjust PE
multiples by margins, we're actually
seeing valuations in line with where
they've been over the past 20 years. We
also have a much higher quality index
than we had back then. So if we look at
free cash flow yields for the median
large cap stock, those are about triple
today what they were back in the dot com
bubble. So some very different
characteristics under the surface
despite that broader narrative. You and
the team are still super bullish and I
know that you alongside Mike Wilson have
talked a lot about AI enablers and then
AI adopters. Can we talk about the
latter? How close are we to really
expressing that as a bigger trade in
this market? Absolutely. So we're still
in fairly early innings on the AI
adoption story. Our tech team runs a
great CIO survey and they found that by
the end of this year around 60% of
companies expect to have at least one AI
products live by the end of the year and
then that number rises to about 80% by
the end of next year. But a question I
get from investors frequently is, okay,
where are the benefits? Are companies
actually seeing tangible benefits from
AI adoption? And so in order to analyze
this, we did a big transcript scrape of
over 13,000 transcripts where we read
those with LLM, so it was AI enabled in
itself.
And we found that the percent of
companies mentioning quantifiable
benefits from AI adoption has risen. So
it's been around 15% in the S&P 500 as
of this quarter compared to 11% last
quarter. And then when we just look at
stocks tagged as AI adopters by our
analysts, it's around a quarter of those
stocks are mentioning quantifiable
benefits. So it is starting to
materialize. That might lead to a higher
profitability in a number of different
companies, but it raises questions about
how many people are necessary. Are we
just going to all be hiring Elon Musk's
robot army into 10 years? I'm just
wondering at what point is this part of
the story and part of the reason why the
Challenger job cuts announcements were
so relevant to people because they did
cite AI and the fact that they were
that was one of the reasons why
companies were pulling back. So I think
it's really hard to disentangle what's
the AI narrative versus what's the
cyclical narrative. But when we think
about AI adoption, we're not thinking
about it as this thing that's going to
come and cause a huge wave of disruption
within the labor market. I think it's
really important to think about what
jobs are more subjected to AI automation
versus augmentation. So yes, some jobs
may be able to be accomplished by AI,
but for a broader portion of jobs, it's
really more of an augmentation story. So
how can we make you more efficient? How
can we free up your time from some more
basic tasks to do more high value
things. So I mean, I don't want to do as
much data entry. I don't want to do as
much you know, cleaning up of tax. I
would like to be able to use AI to do
more of that. And I think you're also
going to see a shift under the surface
of the types of jobs that go to
different go to different roles. So for
example,
before the spreadsheet was another big
big gain in technology. Prior to the
spreadsheet, the share of total jobs
that were bookkeepers was much higher.
The spreadsheet came and disrupted that,
but then after that you had a much
higher share of people like me,
financial analysts leveraging that
technology. So you may see some share
shifts happen again. How far are we in
the adoption in terms of how much you
can have quantifiable results that you
can invest in and see profitability
from?
So similar similar to that analysis I
had referenced before, but we've found
for companies that our analysts have
tagged as AI adopters, around 25% of
those companies are mentioning some sort
of quantifiable gain, whether that's an
increase in revenue, an increase in
productivity, an increase in hours saved
for workers. We're seeing them attribute
some sort of measurable benefit to AI.
And I think what makes it really hard
for some people to wrap their minds
around is the benefits can look so
different company to company and the
means of adoption can look so different.
You mentioned of course the the robot
army that might be coming. Sure, so
maybe maybe you're subjected to embodied
AI and and robotics and and to be able
to adopt that, but there's a lot on the
digital side, on the agentic side,
there's a lot in terms of customer
service, in terms of making your sales
people more efficient. So there's a huge
variety of ways to adopt AI. As you look
at the earnings results and the general
commentary, the president last night
said he doesn't want to hear about
affordability. That's not an issue.
Affordability is down under his
administration. Do you think that's true
in what you're hearing from companies?
So I think we're still very much
subjected to that K economy
where the higher end consumer is is
still out there and spending and then
consumers on the lower end are really
struggling. I think for for people when
you experience inflation, sure the rate
of change on inflation might be down
relative to where it was over the past
couple of years, but for people
experiencing that price levels are still
very much elevated to what they were
spending on a few years back. And so for
example, restaurants are pretty good
illustrator here where you have in some
of the limited service more fast casual
restaurants, really really weak numbers,
really weak visitation to play this
adoption theme? This week we've heard
from two bank CEOs, Brian Moynihan,
Jamie Dimon and I think they're both
talking about exactly the same thing.
How do we generate more revenue
with lower costs? And each additional
dollar of revenue is going to mean we
become less and less labor intensive. Is
that the theme to follow here? Just
track the financials. I I think this
will first manifest itself on the
services side. That that's one way where
the digital technology is really here
right now. The agentic abilities are
coming. They're here. And so that's
where you're going to see some of those
gains pop up first. On the more embodied
AI, the robotic side of the story,
that's going to be more of a 10 year
down the pipe where we start to see
broader adoption of that. So I think
within the services side that are more
exposed to that digital AI factor,
that'll be where you see it first.
>> needs to wait a decade before she starts
worrying about the armies, right? Yes.
Good to know. Michelle, thank you.
Michelle Weaver
You think I'm going to wait that long?
I'm going to worry right now.
Of course I'm worried. I mean you were
already thinking about somebody who
wants to keep control over his robot
army. The breakdown of society if the
government doesn't have a monopoly on on
power and violence, what happens?
Totally. And what happens if somebody is
worth more than entire nation states?
He'd be worth more than entire GDP of
Switzerland. Suffering starts to
fracture. Exactly. This is a real
question. Starts to sound the bond
market. You're just as worried about
this. Let me just be honest. The reason
why you can extrapolate your justice
concerned about all this.
>> calmer in the morning about it. Slightly
in the afternoon, I start freaking out.
Good, that's the reason why we have four
beds.
How do I deprogram these robots? Let's
get you an update [laughter] on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Yahaira for more. Hey Yahaira. Hi John.
Tesla shareholders approved a $1
trillion compensation package for CEO
Elon Musk, the largest payout ever
awarded [music] to a corporate leader.
The move clears the path for Musk to
become the first ever trillionaire and
expand [music] his stake in Tesla. The
agreement requires Musk to deliver on
targets to significantly [music] expand
Tesla's market value and revive its car
business.
Meanwhile, Hungarian leader Victor Orban
is set to meet with President Trump at
the White House today. Orban is expected
to offer a pledge to purchase US
liquefied natural gas and nuclear fuel
in the hopes [music] of getting some
reprieve from Russian oil sanctions.
Those sanctions are threatening to
damage Orban's re-election bid.
>> [music]
>> Hungary Hungary is a major importer of
Russian energy.
And Grand Theft Auto 6 has been delayed
[music] again. The game was originally
set for a fall release, but Rockstar
Games announced earlier this year that
the game [music] would not be ready
until May of next year. In a post on X,
Rockstar Games said the game will now be
released November of 2026. The game had
been in development for has been in
development for more than a decade.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Yahaira, thank you. Appreciate the
update. Up next on the program, cleared
>> [music]
>> for cancellations.
The American people are unfortunately
about to start suffering some very real
consequences because of the shutdown.
After 30 days of this thing, 40 days of
this thing, you're going to start seeing
very real travel delays. That
conversation up next with Tom Fitzgerald
of TD Cowen live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
Stocks are negative. We're down by close
to 2/10 of 1% on the S&P 500. Likewise
on the Nasdaq 100, the Nasdaq heading
for its worst week since April. We're
[music] down this morning again by a
quarter of 1%. Under Savannah's this
morning, cleared for cancellations.
The American people are unfortunately
about to start suffering some very real
consequences because of the shutdown.
After 30 days of this thing, 40 days of
this thing, you're going to start seeing
very real travel delays. That's because
the Democrat government shutdown.
>> [music]
>> You're going to start seeing snap
benefits run out. That's because the
Democrat government shutdown. They
should stop this charade and open up the
government. So here's the latest this
morning. Airlines across the country
canceling flights due to the ongoing
government shutdown. Joining us now from
Newark Liberty Airport, Nora Melendez.
Nora, welcome to the program. How are
things playing out this morning?
Well, we are seeing droves of people
coming in on this Friday morning, but
this is not uncommon. At least that's
according to the people on the ground
that we've been speaking with this
morning so far. But there are about more
than 40 cancellations here at EWR
Airport. But it is important to know as
we look more nationally, this is the
72nd worst day in terms of flight
cancellations since January 2024. So the
size and scope isn't necessarily
catastrophic. A lot of analysts saying
that it could be potentially benign. But
of course, what still remains on the
mind of travelers, those in the economy,
a lot of leaders right now is when we're
going to see an end to this government
shutdown. And how much longer it goes on
for? And if Lisa this goes on until
Thanksgiving week. Yeah, that's sort of
the end date for a lot of people who say
that would cause a lot of disruption
considering it's one of the busiest
holiday seasons of the entire travel
season.
I just think it might be a little bit
not acceptable if you think about some
of the people.
>> to give people a lift to California. Oh,
I'm just saying that
she's got her van ready. I'm just saying
there are other ways, but yes, I've
always said that this was going to be
the breaking point for this government
shutdown. And just publishing now, Greg
Valliere agrees. The airline crisis
pushed Congress closer to passing a
stopgap funding measure, kicking the can
down the road.
>> Nora, I just want to come back to you
briefly just for a quick follow-up
question. Nora, when you speak to people
on the ground, are they aware of the
government shutdown? Just how unpopular
is this thing at the moment with the
general public?
>> [laughter]
>> So in those of I've spoken to thus far,
they are aware of the government
shutdown. I actually talked to some of
the employees here at EWR, and they are
saying that a lot of TSA agents here,
they've experienced this before. This is
not the first government shutdown that
they've seen. So a lot of them seem
unquote unfazed for the time
being, but they are of course concerned
as to whether or not this continues to
prolong being that this is the longest
US shutdown that we have seen thus far.
Nora Melendez on the ground at Newark
Airport. Nora, thank you. Appreciate it.
I just wonder how many people are aware
of this outside of course the people who
rely on benefits, the nutrition and
those kind of things. Outside of course
the people who work at the airports. For
the broader general public, for
everybody else, are they even aware
what's going on in Washington D.C. at
the moment?
>> I think it's a good point to mention
that a lot of people are feeling this in
a very real way where it's not just not
being able to go to their families for
Thanksgiving, although that is real for
a lot of people as well. There is a
feeling that you do have a greater
awareness of the government shutdown
because let me tell you that anyone who
has a flight anytime in the near future
is getting a message saying
saying your flight could be delayed. We
will maybe book you on something else.
We'll try. But you're already seeing it
play out in a very real sense. Reach out
to Anne Marie on X if you want a ride. I
was just saying I don't actually think
it's a good idea. VW the VW bug? You
could take a train. You could turn on
the gray hand. [laughter] You trying to
push them off sale?
>> you driving a gray hand all aboard,
yeah.
Yeah, right. Okay. I'll drop you guys
off, you know, on Thanksgiving wherever
you're going. I'll give that a miss. Tom
Fitzgerald of TD Cowen writing the
following. This is a fluid situation,
but we believe the impact is more
manageable than headlines imply and
continue to believe it has created an
attractive buying opportunity. Tom joins
us now for more. Tom, let's just go
through this, what it means for the
airlines and who gets hurt most.
Thanks, Jonathan.
I think broadly right now it's more akin
to like a snowstorm or a stretch of bad
weather than
the than a catastrophic breakdown. It
the swing factor will be will depend on
how long this last. The I would say that
all the major airlines are are going to
feel this. The the legacies by virtue of
how diverse their networks are, they're
they're able to make a lot of
adjustments. I think some of the
point-to-point leisure carriers will
will maybe feel this a little bit harder
than the the the legacies, but
it really, you know, if it ends in the
next couple days versus if it goes till
up right after the end of Thanksgiving,
that will that will swing how how bad
the impact is on fourth quarter
earnings. Well, Tom, this time next year
the mandated reduction will be at 10%.
What does that look like? 10% cut in
capacity?
It it varies. I think the
you know, one one thing to keep in mind
is because this is the low time of the
season, off-peak, there's a lot of
there's a lot of open seats that they
can re-accommodate passengers onto. And
international flights won't be impacted,
nor will hub-to-hub flights. So I I
think we'll see a lot of the regional
non-hub kind of the shorter haul
domestic stuff get canceled. So I think
if you're traveling internationally, you
should feel okay. I don't think, you
know, I I think the 10% number it's what
the actual cut will be will be much
lower than that. Well, even yesterday
though without this mandated cut, we saw
flight disruptions. So potentially it's
going to become a little bit more
unbearable for some of these carriers.
Who do you think is best positioned?
I I think Delta and United are are
probably the in the pole position right
here. They have exposure to the
strongest revenue streams right now.
They they should have a benefit from a
set of easy comps as we go into next
year. And they're also, you know,
they're benefiting from a lot of the
profitability laggards removing supply
from the system, which should have some
nice pricing tailwinds for into next
year. Tom, there is a sense though right
now that people don't want to book a
flight if they don't have to. That if
someone's going say from New York to
Washington D.C., they're going to take
the train. Or if they're going from New
York to Boston, maybe they'll drive. And
I'm just wondering how much you're
expecting to see that show up. I mean,
it's not going to be completely
negligible, especially if there is a lot
of domestic travel that has a very good
chance of getting canceled.
Absolutely, and that's that's a great
question. I I think the thing to think
about is we got October was pretty
strong. It it certainly could crimp the
first half of November, potentially the
peak season.
I but I think the stocks have already
traded down pretty significantly since
you know, early to mid-October when they
reported earnings. So I think it's fair
to assume a decent amount of this is
already priced in and the stocks are I'd
want to be positioned for a relief rally
when the when the government shutdown
does end. More broadly, we're talking a
lot about conflicting data coming out of
whether it's fast casual retailers,
restaurants, or whether we're talking
about other challenge or job cuts
yesterday. At the same time, it seems
like the indicators for travel are
looking bright. We're talking about
Airbnb. We're talking about Expedia. I'm
just wondering from the airline
perspective, is there any sense that you
have that there has been a slowdown from
some pretty bullish commentary that we
heard say a month or two ago from the
likes of Delta and United?
I think on the corporate front, you
know, leaving aside the noise from the
shutdown, I I think the the signals on
corporate premium, international, those
all tend to sound, you know, be very
positive. A lot of green shoots when we
do our channel checks. And then the
domestic leisure, it depends on I would
say the income cohort. And the the
further down you go, the more price
sensitive the consumer. It it's still a
little more mixed, I would say. Hit or
miss. It's that's that's where the
that's still the caboose of the
different revenue segments. We also are
hearing from the likes of British
Airways overnight talking about how
transatlantic travel is really down, in
particular from London to the United
States. I'm just wondering how much
you're tracking that, how much that's
been a liability for airlines that have
been leveraged particular corridors in
the wake of a number of whether it's PR
issues, whether it's just a currency
differentials.
Yeah, I I think it's a bigger challenge
for the for the non-US airlines with US
outbound international, especially
Europe has been really strong and we
we've seen a lot of demand shift out
into the into the fourth quarter,
whether it's baby boomers traveling in
October cuz they have the flexibility or
more Americans spending their holidays
over in Europe. The a lot of the
weakness has been on European point of
sale where there's been a sizable chunk
of consumers who have avoided traveling
into the US in 2025. Similar dynamic on
the US Canadian transporter market as
well. It's Tom, can we just finish on
income groups? You talked about upper
income groups and when you go down the
allies more exposed to lower income
groups aren't doing as well. Tom, is
there new information there? Has it
always been that way?
I mean, the traveling public is always
skewed a little bit more affluent. I I
think the other challenge right now is
the leisure and ultra-low-cost carriers
have gotten much bigger than they were
say maybe 10, 15 years ago at the same
time that the legacies have gotten much
much more adept at catering to you know,
being all things to all people and you
know, they've they've really honed their
revenue segmentation skills. So it's
partly
it's kind of a tale of two cities.
There's the demand aspect where that
consumer is a little more stressed and
then on the supply side there's probably
still a redundant capacity being put in
the market by the the pure leisure
carriers. Tom, that's all right. Good to
catch up with you. Thank you. Tom
Fitzgerald
of TD Cowen. Thank you. It's not going
to bring people much comfort exposed to
the government shutdown, but as far as
the stocks are concerned for the airline
business going forward from here, Tom
basically calling this a weather event
and something they'll get through in the
next few months.
>> Yeah, a 10% reduction is similar to a
really bad storm in a lot of places at
once. So that's what a lot of the
airline CEOs have been talking about
over the past couple of days. A real
question here though of what this means
more broadly for other people who are
more exposed and it's sort of the
highlight the pain point that we can
point to. You just wonder though all the
other ramifications are costing
massively for the economy and for
individuals.
>> reason why we point to this is cuz
historically this was the straw that
broke the camel's back. In 2018, 2019
the president blanked when you saw all
this chaos in Florida, in New York when
it comes to the airlines. The fact that
Tom thinks it's manageable says to me
maybe this is going to be a lot longer
because this president has a very high
pain threshold and by the sounds of it
so do some of these Democrats that feel
like they have you know, wings with
wind in their wings coming off of the
recent elections and ahead of the
midterms that they need to make a
statement.
>> This is a traditional pressure point.
It's just taken a lot lot longer to get
there, more than 30 days. We were
talking about at the beginning of this
particular government shutdown that we'd
get there in a few weeks. It's taken a
lot longer and maybe it takes a lot
longer from here
>> [music]
>> to address. Coming up on the program,
Liz Everett Chris Burck of Bank of
America Institute with a fresh read on
the labor market plus Danny's back with
your morning movers. Wendy's shares
jumping
>> [music]
>> after topping 3Q earnings expectations.
That stock is up by 6.5%.
As we count you down to the opening bell
about 2 hours away, equity futures on
the S&P 500 still negative by a quarter
of 1% following what looks like [music]
another week of losses on the S&P and on
the Nasdaq. For the S&P 500, the biggest
weekly loss so far since early [music]
October. But Lisa, you've got to go back
to April for the Nasdaq 100 to perform
this badly on a weekly basis and the
earnings, let's face it, the earnings
from big [music] tech that support this
market haven't been that bad. This is a
concern about valuations and fear that
there is froth being built into the
market because you are absolutely right,
whether it's Qualcomm or whether it's
Meta and what we saw from them or
whether it's AMD, the earnings have been
good. They have beat expectations and
then people try to find well, they
didn't beat the highest expectation on
the street for a reason [music] to sell
and ultimately tells more about
valuation than it does maybe about these
companies.
>> Palantir, the poster child for the
pushback from earlier the week as well.
[music] Pushback to otherwise pretty
decent earnings. That's the equity
story. In the bond market, we switch out
the board to stands 30s. This yield
curve has been really interesting
[music] this week because things have
been really choppy. Some days yields up
across the board, some days yields down
across the board by quite a margin as
well off the back of good data, bad
data, hawkish Fed, dovish Fed,
Challenger job cuts, ISM services with
hot, Challenger job cuts were absolutely
terrible. It's difficult to draw
conclusions with confidence about
[music] where we are in this cycle.
There are a lot of mixed signals right
now and we don't get the ground the gold
standard of non-farm payrolls to kind of
provide some sort of gut check. We also
don't have a sense that the Fed has some
sort of consensus or core that is moving
it in one direction or reaction
function. Interestingly though, while we
are getting whipsawed from day to day,
we still do see relative stability in
terms of the absolute level around the
same levels and I wonder what it will
take to really break out of that. When
will we have some conviction about a
longer-term call because right now we're
sort of bantering around the middle
>> [music]
>> and that seems to be kind of what's
keeping things stable. So we're left
going into the weekend with UMich at
10:00 a.m. Eastern time which is one of
my favorites. UMich consumer sentiment
coming up a little bit later which has
just become a political poll. Did they
call you? I thought it's online now. Oh,
did they send you an email? I wish they
would. Yeah? Would you say My inflation
expectations.
>> 25%. [music]
>> 25% over the next 5 to 10 years.
>> [laughter]
>> That's the reason why they're not
calling.
>> That's what I put it out.
5 to 10 year inflation expectations 3.8%
for the survey. It's not my number.
Yeah. Well, it's people who are
measuring here.
>> [music]
>> Honestly, consumers out there carefully
calibrating inflation and their
expectations the next 5 to 10 years
watching every data point. Thank you.
>> that [music] data point a little bit
later this morning at 10:00 a.m. Eastern
time. As we count you down to the cash
open, let's get you some single names.
Your morning movers with Danny Burger.
Hey Danny. Hey John, here is another
read on the consumer. It's been the
theme for this earning season. Fast
casual has not been doing well, but fast
food has. Here's a look at Wendy's this
morning reporting just moments ago.
Their loss was not as bad as expected.
That's good news for Wendy because they
Wendy's they've been trying to engineer
a turnaround story. So maybe the
consumer is going more to the fast
foods, to the Wendy's of the world.
Those shares up 7 and a half percent.
Elsewhere, OpenDoor Technologies
reporting a plunge in these shares down
23%. They reported earnings that missed
expectations. This is of course the home
buying software. What did not save the
company also is the new CEO getting on
the earnings call and saying we are
repositioning as an AI company, an AI
fueled company that helps people look
for homes. Again, just mentioning AI
that that doesn't cut it for investors
at this moment. So shares really taking
a beating this morning. Finally, we're
also looking at Take-Two Entertainment.
Shares are down 6%. [music]
They yet again have delayed the release
of the latest Grand Theft Auto. It was
slated to come out in fall of this year.
They originally delayed it till May of
next [music] year and now they say they
need to delay it even further this time
for November of 2026. Of course, the big
concern around there is just it means
costs pile up as they try to finish this
game, John. Danny, thank you. Stock you
stand by. 6% more from Danny in the next
hour. On a radar this morning, Tesla
shareholders approving CEO [music] Elon
Musk's massive $1 trillion pay package.
To get the full payout, Musk needs to
deliver on financial and operational
targets including expanding Tesla's
market value to 8.5 trillion US dollars.
Elsewhere, China's exports slumping
unexpectedly last month dropping more
than 1% from a year earlier. Beijing's
global shipments to all nations except
the US actually increased, but not
enough to offset the more than 25%
decline in shipments to the US. And
finally, the Senate planning a vote
today to end the government shutdown.
Republicans are hoping an amendment
continued resolution that includes a
promise to vote on extending health care
subsidies will entice some moderate
Democrats.
>> So basically is this just a show vote
though and that's what some Democrats
are concerned about, but there are some
Republicans that are having these
bipartisan discussions with Democrats
also saying that they would like to see
an extension. This is what Punchbowl has
to write. At least 10 Republicans have
approached Democrats to express interest
in extension of the tax credit. If that
is the case, this could be the contours
of an off-ramp to reopen the government.
>> wonder who's taking the brunt of it. Do
Democrats still have the upper hand or
are people getting fed up at this point
more globally
with both parties given the fact that
there are some real people who are not
getting paid, who are trying to get SNAP
the flights, but we do that a little bit
tongue in cheek cuz it's the most
representative for people in terms of
disruption. There are very real
ramifications that are happening across
the economy. Dysfunction in Washington
hasn't been popular for a long time.
It's not popular now. They need to fix
it. Problem is who's got the higher pain
threshold. That's what it always comes
down to in Washington. Who's got the
higher pain threshold to sit this out
and wait for the other side to blink.
I think this year history has taught us
the president of the United States,
Donald Trump, has the highest pain
threshold and I think April was a really
good show of that. He waited really into
the last possible moment when the bond
market was pushing back. I think he had
a call with Jamie Dimon when he finally
came out and had a bit of a reversal on
his tariff policy. The government
shutdown continues. Let's turn to that
labor market. Wall Street missing a
second straight government payrolls
report putting the emphasis on private
data. Liz Everett Chris Burck of the
Bank of America Institute writing our
internal data suggests the cooling but
not collapsing labor market. There was
no sign of a further deceleration in
October. Liz joins us in the studio for
more. Liz, good morning. Good morning.
Happy Friday. Happy Friday to you, too.
This is some good news. We're seeing
some stabilization. I think that's
exactly what I would say. We're seeing
some stabilization. If we go back to
what we were seeing through the summer,
we were seeing cooling cooling labor
market and we were seeing that in Bank
of America data across kind of the board
both in what we estimate for payrolls,
in what we're seeing in wages, what we
see with unemployment. But the data that
came out in October really saw that kind
of stabilize. We didn't see a further
deceleration and I think that that's
kind of important as we try and
understand kind of where where the
consumer is as well. Well, where is the
consumer? Let's just lean on you
internal data. So, this is what we hear
from individual companies. Expedia, hot
consumer, everything's fantastic.
Chipotle, everything's absolutely
dreadful. What do you see in the
internal data? Well, the key to
understanding the consumer is
understanding the labor market, right?
So, what is going on with wage growth?
That's really what's going to be driving
the consumer. And what we saw in October
was for all income cohorts, we saw
they're continuing to see their wages
grow, but they're all that growth is
decelerating for all of the income
groups. So, that's kind of the broad
picture, but if you drill down into
looking at the story by income group, by
higher, middle, and lower, it's a very
divergent story. So, let's start with
the um
Let's start with higher income. Higher
income
accelerated No, it didn't accelerate. It
was up 3.7%. That was just off of where
we were at 4% last month, but that's
still pretty close to the high over the
last four or five years. Lower income
households, on the other hand, increased
by just 1%, which was a deceleration and
a tenth of a percent better than the
0.9% we saw in August, which was the low
over the last, call it, 10 years. So, if
you look at the difference between
higher and lower income, that that gap
at 2.7 percentage points, that's the
widest gap, tied for the widest gap
since we've had this series starting in
2016. So, talk about a K-shape recovery,
talk about, you know, a difference
between who can afford it and who can't,
you're really seeing that. And that's
really what stood out to me in the
report, and it just makes me wonder, the
K-shape's getting wider. It's getting
more dramatic, and I wonder how much
that really is picked up by the overall
data, or whether we're just hearing it
in the anecdotes of McDonald's, where
you're seeing, you know, double
double-digit declines in lower income
consumers. This is where it's from.
How much can we actually address that
with policy, as people have been talking
about, or is it just going to kind of a
wash in the overall numbers? Well, I
think one of the other things that we're
seeing, we've seen in our data, and
we've seen for quite some time, is you
are seeing the trade down by the higher
income going from premium stores to to
value, but the lower income consumer has
predominantly been at those value
offerings already, right? So, they don't
have the ability to trade down. And I
think that's that's an important
component.
>> I guess I want to know how much
historical data we have to look forward
and say that this is unsustainable and
that there is a tell in the lower income
households of what's to come in the
overall economy. Is that valid, or can
this just continue indefinitely?
>> I think one of the things that we've
seen, and we've seen this in the
government data, and we see this in our
own data, that that consumer spending is
really driven by the higher income
consumer. They are they are
disproportionately spending more cuz
they have more. They're off they've
they've also been bolstered by wealth
effects, right? If you think about who's
the markets the markets have have
increased more than we've seen in the
wage gains, right? So, that's continuing
to support them, but most lower income
households don't have that exposure,
right? So, that's something you look at
housing, housing is benefiting the
higher income consumer as well, and I
think those are important things to
consider. When you look at Chipotle and
Shake Shack, they were talking about
actually how also it was a younger
generation. What kind of generational
shifts are you seeing in terms of the
consumer? That's a great question. One
of the things that we also were able to
look at looking at um our consumer
deposit data is what how many households
are receiving unemployment income,
right? And about two-thirds of states
two-thirds to three-quarters, they
deliver unemployment benefits
electronically, so we can see that
coming in. And what we've seen over the
past couple of months is increases from
a low base of about 10% in unemployment
benefits households getting them. But if
you break it down by generation it's the
youngest generation that's seeing the
biggest jumps, and overall, younger
consumers, their their unemployment
rate, based on our data, is higher than
the overall unemployment rate for the
first time again in the history of our
data. History of your data. So,
basically, they're not doing nearly as
well as, say, their parents or the
generation above them. No, they're not,
but what's interesting is if you also
look at the generational data by by
spend, and you look at Gen X, right,
which are people who have children who
have just graduated from college and
whatnot, they're also getting squeezed
cuz many of them
>> are supporting
>> supporting, you know, that's the
sandwich generation, and so it's
something else to consider. Liz, can we
talk about leading indicators?
What typically moves first as you start
to recover and things do reaccelerate?
What would you look for first? Well, I
let's let's look at it the other way,
right? Let's think about it the other
way. What are the things that we look
for declining? One, I would expect to
see a shift in spending from
from debit cards to credit cards, to
people to increase that, and we haven't
seen that in our data yet. We would
expect to see credit card utilizations
increase, and really, in general, we
haven't seen that happen as well. Um
this is this is from last month, but I
would also say one of the things that I
think is really interesting is you've
heard seen the headlines that overall
credit card debt outstanding is higher
on a nominal basis, which is true, but
if you look at those consumers that are
carrying a balance, right, the
proportion of the amount they have left
outstanding and their income, that ratio
has actually gone down because even
though I'm talking about about wage
growth decelerating this month, the fact
of the matter is over the past few
years, wage growth has been growing
across the board. So, because wages and
labor is higher, even though that
absolute nominal amount is higher,
you're you're still doing okay. Liz,
this was a clinic, and we appreciate it.
Thanks for being here. Of course, always
great to be here.
>> Thank you. Liz Ann Sonders of the Bank
of America Institute. Some
stabilization, that's some good news.
I'll take that. Yeah, there's good news
in the overall data. There's bad news in
the underlying details, in the sense
that when people talk about the K-shape,
it's hard to see how it's going to
connect. It seems like it's getting
wider, given that you're seeing fewer
wage gains at the It's becoming an eye.
Yeah, exactly. You know, it's getting
getting that spread. And that I think is
going to be a perpetual feature, because
how does that get picked up if the data
doesn't reflect it in that kind of way
in the aggregate?
>> It's certainly space in the politics in
this city over the last week.
>> Exactly. When Liz was talking about the
fact that you have an increase of
unemployment with these Gen Z'ers, there
is basically this concern, and we're
seeing in the outcome that they are
frustrated with the system, and they do
not feel like they can be better than
their their parents. What I love though
is the Gen X'ers. The fact that they are
still supporting their children, they're
the ones that are really being squeezed
when it comes to these generational
divides. If you want to stay again,
welcome to the program. For the broader
price action, we're down by about a
third of 1% on the S&P so far this
Friday morning. With an update on news
worldwide with your Bloomberg Brief,
let's cross over to Yahaira for more.
Hey, Yahaira. Hi, John. Wendy's shares
are rising 6.8% after the fast-food
giant reported third-quarter sales that
declined less than expected. The company
also maintained its outlook for the full
year after slashing it twice in the
previous two quarters. This could mark a
turnaround for the burger chain after a
tough year that's seen shares fall over
40%.
Meanwhile, First Brands is desperately
seeking access to $600 million in
remaining bankruptcy financing. Lawyers
warning that without the rest of the
$1.1 billion loan, it's game over, and
the company will have to
>> [music]
>> immediately liquidate. Holdout
creditors, including Onset Financial,
are fighting the deal, claiming the
firms stripped them of collateral. The
high-stakes hearing continues today.
And Comcast is reportedly taking the
next steps [music] in a potential offer
for parts of Warner Bros. Discovery.
According to Reuters, Comcast is hiring
Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley to
evaluate offers for Warner Bros.
Discovery's studio and streaming
businesses, and has gained access
[music] to its financial data. That's
your Bloomberg Brief, John. Yahaira,
thank you. More from Yahaira in the next
Next on the program, the Federal
Reserve's balancing [music] act.
After last week's meeting, I see
monetary policy as barely restrictive,
if at all.
And it's not obvious to me that monetary
policy should do more at this time. Up
next, Claudia Sahm of New Century
Advisors, live from New York City.
>> [music]
>> You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all. Equities soft
by 0.4% on the S&P, down by 0.6 on the
Nasdaq. [music] In the bond market,
two-year, 10-year, 30 up on yields, just
about unchanged. 10s at 4.09%. [music]
And this event is this morning, the
Federal Reserve's balancing act.
I remain concerned about high inflation,
>> [music]
>> and believe policy should be leaning
against it.
After last week's meeting, I see
monetary policy as barely restrictive,
if at all.
And it's not obvious to me that monetary
policy should do more at this time.
But the future is inherently uncertain,
and I'm watching developments closely.
So, here's the latest this morning.
Divisions of the Federal Reserve growing
as officials voice competing views on
the economy. Claudia Sahm of New Century
Advisors writes in the K-shaped economy
is a sign that monetary policy is
restrictive. That's not a reason to cut
rates. Inflation is still elevated, but
monetary policy is restrictive. Claudia
joins us now for more. Claudia, welcome
to the program. So, a difference of
opinion, of course, and there's a range
of opinions on the committee at the
moment. But a difference of opinion
between you and, say, Beth Ann of the
Cleveland Fed Reserve, who says, "We're
barely restrictive, if restrictive at
all." What do you think she's looking at
compared to what you're looking at?
All right. Well, I think there you know,
there's different ways of kind of
defining the issue, but I think it's
important to underscore that while the
Fed has these broad-based goals, price
stability, maximum employment for the
economy of as a whole, the reality is
that monetary policy, the tool they
have, raising interest rates to contain
inflation, that affects certain groups
of households and firms differently,
right? It's the financially constrained
households and firms that are the ones
that can't escape the higher interest
rates and have to pull back on demand.
So, we're talking a lot about the
K-shaped economy, and part of that lower
arm of the K moving down, that's
monetary policy working. Right? That's
what restrictive monetary policy looks
like. That's not the goal of it, but
that is a sign. Now, it is true that
there can be crosscurrents that offset
some of that restriction, say higher
stock market wealth, but the reality is
the Fed is pushing down on the economy,
and you can see that in the K. Is that
observation, Claudia, a sufficiently
strong enough argument to say we should
be cutting interest rates at the Federal
Reserve?
No, I don't take it as The fact that
monetary policy is working, it might not
have done the job, right? So, it really
gets down to a question of does the Fed
need to do more to get inflation back
down to 2%, and that's a lot of this
discussion about, well, you know, it's
been elevated, it's been moving up, it's
all about tariffs, that's going to work
its way through. And then you see other
members of the FOMC being more skeptical
of that argument, right? And I think
that's where the debate is. There is
still restriction, it's just this
question of is it enough? And I think
the Fed still has room to ease some, to
pull some restriction out, and still be
putting kind of thumb on the scale in
terms of getting inflation down, but
that's That's going to be a robust
debate, right? Like people can differ
cuz it doesn't just kind of jump out of
the data. You really have to dig under
the hood to see, you know, what's going
on. Claudia, do you think that at its
core, this is a debate about what the
Fed's mandate should be going forward,
given the confusing and conflicting data
that we're getting around the labor
market, as well as inflation?
So, the current Federal Reserve is
unified around what its goals are. I
mean, they just went through another
strategy review. This is a Fed that is
committed to a 2% inflation target. They
may be willing, and they may differ in
their willingness of how long to kind
of, you know, have the runway to get
back to 2%. They're definitely different
in terms of the risk they see to the
labor market and to inflation, but they
are unified in what the goals are, you
know, but so I think that's a place Now,
that could change next year, right? The
Fed is on track to be a different Fed
uh come next year. We don't know how
different it's going to be, but I think
as of right now, they're unified in the
goals. They're just very, you know, have
different opinions about how to get
there, and I think given how complicated
the economic environment is, dual
mandate in conflict, it it makes sense
that they disagree. Unified in goals
when it comes to both the labor market
and inflation at the same time, it's
hard to understand whether it's a
headline numbers around the labor market
picture, as John's pointed out, or
whether it's the actual unemployment
level, the rate, because ultimately,
we've heard conflicting things from Fed
Chair Jay Powell on this point. I'm just
wondering, from your perspective, do you
get the sense that this is a Fed that is
tortured over massive changes to the
labor market that make the data kind of
unclear?
So, right now, it's going to be really
difficult. The Fed is They have a lot of
data, right? We always have a lot of
data on the economy, and and this is a
data-driven Fed still, but what we're
missing right now are the the data that
settle debates, right? It really is a
problem for them to be missing the
government data, the labor market
statistics, when that is so front and
center in terms of their deliberations,
and they're just not going to have a lot
of information before the December
meeting that would kind of settle the
debate. So, I expect this to kind of,
you know, go down to the wire, and we
should understand that even when the
government reopens, it is going to take
months for the disruptions and
distortions in the government data to
get all, you know, worked out. So, it's
unfortunate that, you know, at a moment
where there's legitimately reason to be,
you know, have different opinions, we
don't have the information that would
typically kind of get them to rally
together and say, okay, this is the next
step.
>> Claudia, can you just build on that a
little bit? So, we've got about 5 weeks
now until the Federal Reserve meeting on
December 10th, starts of course on the
9th, 2 days to discuss all of this.
Let's say the government shut down ended
this week. How long would it take to
actually get some high-quality
information on the labor market?
It's going to take time. I think we
should understand we missed an entire
month of data collection. So,
historically, this is a very long
shutdown, that's very disruptive for the
process. You know, they don't just pick
up, they try to fill in those gaps, and
then we should remember the Bureau of
Labor Statistics is down 20% of its
staff as of the beginning of this year.
They are missing a third of their
leadership, right? So, this is a really
complicated moment, and they don't have
the, you know, the the staff to really
step in and do this quickly. So, they
will get the job done to the best of
their ability. This White House has
chosen to reduce the ability of our
statistical agencies to do their job,
but like the the idea that the Fed is
going to have a lot more information by
December 10th from the government, good
luck.
>> Yeah, this is the problem.
And the Fed right now looks gridlocked,
deadlocked, and Claudia, I just wonder,
I'd love your opinion on this. Do you
think we can break that deadlock by
December 10th, one way or the other?
Well, they're going to have a vote,
right? The Fed is going to, you know,
they never have all the information
they'd want. They have to come together
and make a decision. There will be a
decision, but we need to understand it's
going to be a less well-informed
decision. They may make the right one,
they may make the wrong one, but they're
not going to have the information that
they typically would have, and it's
really unfortunate because the
government shutdown, the economic
statistics shutdown, the economy did not
shut down, right? And we don't have a
good comprehensive sense of what's been
happening since August. Claudia Sahm of
New Century Advisors. Claudia, thank
you. This is wonderful. Always good to
catch up and get your thoughts on
things. Difficult decision. What's the
harder decision right now? To cut rates
or just to stand pat, to do nothing? It
depends on what your ultimate metric is
going to be. Is it the idea of the
political blowback? Cuz we know which
one that would be. It would be harder to
not cut. At the same time, is it
potential market blowback? And what
really has been the sort of froth that
has come out of the market in
anticipation of a different out outcome
in December than people originally
expected.
>> And Claudia makes a good point. Once the
government reopens, all right, we're
going to get that first payrolls report
that's ready to go. But besides that,
now all of this needs to be back data
backdated. Where was inflation in
October? Then where's it going to be in
November? Do people even remember in
terms of where they were in terms of
employment in these months? So, not only
is there going to be this potential when
do we get the data, but once we get it,
how clear is that data actually?
>> I already miss the cadence of this,
don't you? First Friday of the month, no
jobs data. I was really enjoying AI's
poem about it. I think that it really
kind of get got the feeling of the
fervor, the excitement. What's your
payrolls guess? All estimates finally
in.
>> And you guys are saying this even though
around this table, we've always talked
about the fact that is the data of good
quality? And now, you don't know what
you're missing until it's gone. There's
a drumbeat to financial markets. There's
a rhythm, a cadence to it. And just that
drumbeat is payrolls every first Friday
of the month, you can see CPI, then you
get the Federal Reserve, and now it's
like, you mentioned, the beat is just
off. No, it's an abstract. It's sort of
an abstract, like ADP. All of a sudden,
Challenger off. Like a child smashing a
tambourine or something like that.
Hungry hippos. Yeah, we're Yeah, not
good. From New York, you're watching
Bloomberg TV.
We have nice earnings growth, but it's
being pushed by Mag 7.
>> Until this bull market is over, probably
these growth stocks lead the way.
>> There's this euphoria that's taken over
the equity market.
>> We still do feel confident at the stage
we're in coming out of earning season.
The story is still positive. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and [music] Anne
Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now,
>> [music]
>> and your price action looks like this.
Your scores
shaping up as follows. We're down by
0.5% on the S&P 500. On the Nasdaq 100,
we're down by 0.6, adding to the week's
losses. In the bond market, twos, 10s,
and 30s, [music] what a choppy week for
fixed income. 4-year bond yields just
about unchanged, 10-year bond yields
rather, at 4%. 2-year bond yields down
about a basis point at 354.51.
Typically, I'd be saying 29 minutes away
from the payrolls report, of course,
that's not happening. We're about 2
hours away from UMich consumer sentiment
going into the weekend. That is all
we've got going into the weekend. Makes
me a little sad, I have to be honest. It
really is sad because we would have an
ultimate check on all of the conflicting
data that we had this week. We would
have had nonfarm payrolls. We would have
been looking at the public and nonpublic
payrolls numbers. We would have been
looking at wage gains. There's so much
information that we could have talked
about, but instead, we're going to sit
[music] here and talk about whether you
prefer Wendy's or whether you prefer
McDonald's, because that's the data
Challenger job cuts, because that's the
data that we do have
>> [music]
>> aside from your own personal favorite,
the University of Michigan sentiment.
>> Love UMich, can't wait for UMich, of
course. Are we ready [music] missing
payrolls? Take a step back. I got a
message moments ago saying we've had
payrolls revised down by more than a
million over the last 12 months or
something [music] like that, right?
That's hardly high-quality data. That's
the view of a lot of people right now.
And I've mentioned this a few times, if
I'd given you the payrolls data at the
start of the year, you would have been
hopelessly bearish and missed the equity
market rally anyway. So, let's take a
step back and say, okay, let's pretend
we get it 8:30 Eastern time, and I'm
going to tell you that number is 25,000.
How relevant is that to today's stock
market, to
>> [music]
>> today's S&P 500?
Don't Don't Don't ask these questions. I
mean, honestly, like it's nice to have
the data to just kind of mull over and
frankly provide a gut [music] check for
these other things. You can make the
argument that it hasn't actually
provided a compass for anything. At the
same time, it is a tell, and people have
models, and they plug them in, and the
people that I'm talking about who
actually matter are the Fed members, and
it is going to affect their willingness
to either cut rates or not in December.
So, there is a relevance to this. And
honestly, it's I I agree with you about
the cadence of the week. I mean, it
gives you something to kind of build
toward, [music]
get, digest, talk about, you know. Your
point on the Federal Reserve, I think is
super valid. There was a bust in this
market that this Fed would not deviate
from the dot plot, even with the
government shutdown, even with the lack
of data. Just in the last 24 hours,
Austen Goolsbee, the Chicago Fed
president, I think others too, taking
the view that when things are foggy,
slow down, do nothing.
>> [music]
>> And that if we don't have sufficient
data by the December meeting, there
won't be a willingness to reduce
interest rates. That's a change [music]
on this committee. And they're looking a
lot of some of these individuals, like
Goolsbee, looking at CPI, the fact that
they're not going to have that inflation
data. You can look at other measures
when it comes to the jobs market, and
Governor Myron said this as well. He
said going into next year, [music] he
would also be uneasy if he didn't have
these those inflation prints. So, the
fact of the matter is the Fed is going
to be flying blind potentially in
December, and even if they're not, and
we do come and emerge out of this data
desert cuz the government shutdown
is is over. We're 38 days today.
How good is the data going to be? The
quality collection is obviously going to
be an issue. Stocks are down this
morning. We're negative by 0.4% [music]
call it 0.5 on the S&P 500. Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with Nadia
Lovell of UBS Global Wealth Management
with stocks edging lower. Stephanie Roth
of Wolfe Research as she sees positive
signs ahead for US growth, and Jeff
Rosenberg of BlackRock as we break down
the health of the US labor market. We
begin this hour with stocks falling,
adding to weekly losses. Nadia Lovell of
UBS Global Wealth Management writing,
"While elevated valuations continue to
raise concerns and could lead to
increased volatility, we believe the
underlying fundamentals remain strong
and consider market pullbacks as buying
opportunities." Nadia joins us now for
more. Nadia, good morning. Good morning.
What happened to the year-end melt-up?
Where did it go? What went wrong?
It's only been a week, Jonathan.
>> [laughter]
>> We think that it's still there, right?
Of course, investors are again
confronted with this wall of worry. Just
we have the government shutdown, we have
concerns around AI spending, we have
hawkish, you know, rhetoric from the
Fed. But, um that could cause some
volatility in the near term as we noted,
but we do think that that wall of worry
will be climbed because the fundamentals
are there. When you look at the earning
season, um you know, above expectations,
even our elevated expectations for 10%
EPS growth for the quarter, when it's
all said and done, we could get
something in the mid-teens. So, we think
that that will continue to support the
market once we get through this
choppiness, and that's why we think that
uh there's not going to be any sort of
significant pullback because we do think
that, particularly on the institutional
side, will step in and buy. I'm with
you. It tells you something about the
market when you get a 3% move on tech
stocks, and the bears start popping
champagne. They've had a tough year,
particularly off the lows of April.
Let's talk about the move into year-end,
and the subtle signs we're getting from
the price action in response to
earnings. Lisa was going through a range
of equities that we've seen report
earnings, decent earnings, and this
market's pushed back. That's new. We
haven't been seeing that over previous
quarters. They've been rewarded for
decent earnings. What's changed? I think
what's changed is that, you know,
evaluations. People are all focused on
the valuations. Also, you're seeing some
weakness in tech, and that's causing
some nervousness. And it's uh it's fair
for um you know, tech investors to start
to say, "Where is the monetization of
this?" But, realistically, it will take
some time to get there. But, I think
you're starting to see evidence of that.
If you look at the earning season,
particularly around cloud growth, right?
That's where you're seeing the
monetization. You've seen AWS printed 12
20% year-over-year growth, an
acceleration of 200 basis points from
the last quarter. You've seen a similar
acceleration from Google, 34 34%, and
then Microsoft also, you know, 40% in
terms of their Azure revenue growth. Um
ultimately, it's the supply constraint
that's holding back even those high
growth. So, we do think that investors
will come back, you know, and and
reassess some of these fundamentals and
realize that they actually have been
quite strong, Jonathan. You can dismiss
the pullback that we've seen over the
past week as just saying, "Okay, it's
just been 1 week." That said, you have
seen a shift where momentum and that
whole trade has been unwinding. We've
seen that in meme stocks, we've seen
that with Bitcoin, we've seen that even
on the peripheries of gold. We've seen
that with a number of some
non-profitable tech names that also got
bid up. What do you think is behind
that? Look, reality is did did did the
market run fast to too fast, too quickly
in the last month? You can make that
argument, yes. And so, taking some off
the table, it's a natural sort of course
in terms of, you know, a pullback. We
haven't even gotten to 5%, and I think
once you get to that five or sixes, or
even seven percent, which we don't think
you're you're going to get to, then
you're going to see money start to come
back into the market. So, I think it's
just sort of a reallocation and looking
for those opportunities where you're
some particularly someone on the laggard
side, even in a healthcare, I think the
money will start to flow into that. And
so, it's taking a little bit off of the
table on some of the winners, and then I
think into year-end, you start to see
some of the the laggards get a bid. On
the index level, it hasn't been that big
of a drawdown. When you take a look at
an index of meme stocks, it was down 5%
yesterday. It's down 17% from the peak.
At what point do you think that some of
these losses will affect retail appetite
and retail psychology, given what a big
role they've played, maybe not in the
overall total market cap, but certainly
when it comes comes to trading volumes?
You know, yes, you are absolutely right.
Retail investors have been a big buyer
of this market. But again, I think it
goes back to, you know, reallocating
some of those resources to other parts
of the market. Um the meme stock at the
end of the day, it's going to be the
earnings that is going to drive this
market. And so, you I think that you're
going to see those quality names start
to get a bit again. Um taking out some
of the froth of the market is a healthy
part of the process, Lisa, in our view.
We don't want this market to run up too
quickly. As we were discussing earlier,
it's giving those people who have been
waiting on the sideline an opportunity,
and there is a lot of cash still on the
sideline. Particularly those
institutional investors that has missed
some of this rally that we think that
will make up to kind of close that
underperformance gap into year-end that
will come back into this market. But
again, focusing on those more quality
areas, and not sort of the meme
non-profitable areas of the market.
>> Nadia, the government shutdown continues
to drag on. Any [clears throat] of this
what's going on in the market being
driven at this moment a little bit by
policy uncertainty in Washington? I
think so, particularly around what it
could do to consumer sentiment and what
it could do to spend spend it going
forward. Reality is people aren't
getting paid, and if that weighs on the
sentiment, particularly into the holiday
season, you could see some pullback,
particularly in some of the consumer
names. So, that is starting to drag on
the market on the margin. But, I think,
you know, as we've been discussing this
morning, that as we approach the the
holiday season, particularly
Thanksgiving, um you'll likely to see
the government start to take this a
little bit more seriously in terms of
what it's doing to the American consumer
and reopen the government. I mean, I
hear from my mom who runs our church
pantry that the reality is you're seeing
long lines there. So, people are
suffering, right? And I think that there
are will there are calling their
representative to to sort of reopen the
government.
>> reopens before Thanksgiving? I do. I do.
We do think that uh it's not a
guarantee. Look, you know, um nothing is
ever guaranteed, but it does feel that
way that momentum is building to reopen
this government in the next couple of
weeks. Nadia, still constructive. Always
good to see you. Thanks for dropping by.
With or without payrolls, the wonderful
Nadia Lovell of UBS Global Wealth
Management. Who needs payrolls? Buy the
pullbacks.
>> [laughter]
>> Certainly if the data from the companies
themselves is coming out strong, why
not, right? I think that there is a
question though about the psychology,
and I thought that the final point I
thought that your question was really
good, Amaria, about the psychology of
the consumer in response to the
government shutdown. There are some real
risk factors right now that could also
be at play here with some of the
pullback. And yes, we're going to talk
about it. Even though it might melt up
into the end of the year, I do think
it's important to notice. Bloomberg
Intelligence said the previous record
shutdown lasted 23 trading days,
2018-2019, during which the market
gained how much? 8%. The market actually
gained 8%, and that was the previous
longest shutdown. So, potentially if
they wrap this up pretty quickly,
it won't be that brutal.
>> Yeah, this is a market that's been
driven by a lot of earnings, some
fantastic earnings at some major tech
players which make up the bulk of the
S&P 500, and a lot of optimism and
confidence in one major theme, AI. And
that is very, very different to the
payrolls report. In fact, completely the
opposite.
Well, this is the problem, right? At
what point do you have an economy
completely driven by AI hopes and dreams
that can keep going that way without
consumers seeing the benefit from jobs,
from getting paid, and from actually
consuming basic things. So, these are
sort of the uh the the difficult moments
that we have to try to square.
>> You'd have to believe there's a limit to
that decoupling. You've got to believe
that. Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. If you're just
joining us, here is your Bloomberg Brief
with Yahara Arnold. Hi, Yahara. Hi,
John.
>> [music]
>> Tesla shareholders approved CEO Elon
Musk's $1 trillion pay package, the
largest payout ever awarded to a
corporate leader. More than 75% [music]
of votes cast were in favor, clearing
the path for Musk to become the first
ever trillionaire. The agreement
requires Musk to deliver on targets to
significantly expand Tesla's [music]
market value, revive car sales, and ramp
up robotaxis.
Meanwhile, airlines across the US have
started canceling hundreds of flights
due to the government shutdown. [music]
The four largest carriers have canceled
about 700 flights scheduled for Friday
after the US Transportation Department
ordered airlines to cut 10% of flight
capacity across 40 major airports.
>> [music]
>> The reductions apply to flights between
6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. local time at
those airports.
And Ford is considering scrapping its
electric F-150 pickup truck. The Wall
Street Journal reporting no final
decision has been made, but executives
are in active discussions. A Ford
spokesman declined to comment on future
product product product plans,
>> [music]
>> but did say the F-150 Lightning gained
record sales in the third quarter, and
is the top-selling electric pickup truck
in the US. That's your Bloomberg Brief,
John. Yahara, thank you. Appreciate the
update. Up next on the program the
Monocle Plus the road ahead for Tesla
with shareholders approving Elon Musk's
$1 trillion
compensation package. That conversation
up next live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
On the surface, totally understandable
how people are drawing comparisons.
We're trading at 23 times in change.
Tech bubble valuations [music] peaked
around 24 times. And then we had the
build out of telecom. Now we have the
build out of AI. When we dig under the
surface on valuation, we have a very
different index today than we had then.
We're actually seeing valuations in line
with where they've been over the past 20
years. If we look at free cash flow
yields for the median large cap stock,
those are about triple today what they
were [music] back in the dot com bubble.
This ain't dot com. That was Michelle
Weaver. That's the message coming from
Michelle and the team over at Morgan
Stanley. Equity futures on the S&P 500
declining once again though. We're down
by third of 1% on the S&P. On the Nasdaq
100 down by 0.5. What a week for the
Nasdaq. Lisa, we're poised for a drop of
something close to 3%. [music] It's not
the start of April. Those losses were
severe, but it's the biggest weekly loss
since the start of April.
>> gives you a sense of how much some of
these names have run up in the meantime.
The fact that we are talking about a
weekly decline that is the first weekly
decline in a month and it is not that
significant highlights just how much we
are used to,
>> [music]
>> you know, money printer go burr and
everything go up. But I do think right
now there is a tell from earnings that
came out well and that people still sold
these stocks. How do we value to the
moon? And that I think is what people
are striking.
>> I like it when you sprinkle in some
sound effects. You know? She can't help
herself.
>> Money printer go burr.
>> [laughter]
>> Well, you got to roll the but you got to
roll the R. You got to roll the tongue.
>> the R. I didn't know that.
>> I think so. Okay. Good to know. All
right. For next for next time, Lisa can
practice. All right. There we go. The
hell was that? That's something else,
right? That sounds like a cat.
>> Exactly. I I I said that before. All
right. So the bell on market. What are
we doing? No payrolls. Everyone's dazed
and confused and going crazy apparently.
Twos, tens, and thirties. Yields look
like this. 4.1% on a 10 year.
Interesting debate at the front end of
the curve 355. Look, we're unmoved on
the week, unchanged. But [music] if you
picture this as a tug-of-war with a ton
of tension in that rope. With strong
arguments on both sides to cut interest
rate and then to do nothing and maybe a
little whisper of maybe hikes in 2026
from the fringes of Wall Street. Look,
that's where the debate is right now.
It's vicious.
>> [music]
>> And right now the data is not actually
giving any insight into which side of
the debate people are going to come on.
What it comes down to, I keep thinking
of the conversation we had about how
lower income consumers are seeing their
pay increase [music] at the lowest pace
relative to high income consumers
tied on record from Bank of America
going back to 2015. [music]
And it raises a question, is monetary
policy trying to close a gap that is not
something that monetary policy can
[music] do. And how much is that skewing
some of the data that's coming out that
people are looking at as anecdotes
[music]
versus the overall numbers that still
look okay. And I think that really has
become a really big debate.
>> I understand the temptation of a
monetary policy official [music] wanting
to involve themselves in the wealth
inequality debate.
I understand the temptation. There are
massive risks surrounding them getting
involved. In fact, there is a really
strong powerful argument that over the
last decade, two decades, they've
[music] exacerbated the wealth
inequality in this country and around
the world with aggressive monetary
policy that has supported people who
hold assets, wealthy people, and hurt
people who don't. And that's exactly the
point that Liz Everett Chrisberg was
talking about from the Bank of America
Institute talking about how if you have
assets, you feel good because stocks are
going up, money printer doing its thing.
But I'm looking right now at a question
of at what point does a Fed rate cut
exacerbate some of the froth that people
are talking about versus helping people
with the labor market? Unclear exactly
what the answer to that is.
>> The bond yield just about unchanged.
Twos at thirties. 10 year bond yields at
4.1%. [music]
Twos at about 355. That's the price
action. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up, William Blair
downgrading, [music] guess who?
Sweetgreen to market perform saying
investor skepticism will reign supreme.
It's what happens when you don't give
people their chicken bremo and they pay
$15, $16 for a salad.
>> Yeah, or how about a salmon? And wait
online for 20 minutes. Well, they talked
about maybe increasing the protein
offerings by 25% in terms of the portion
sizes to try to bring people back. So,
how much is this a Sweetgreen issue? How
much is this really
some sort of convenience store issue?
And it seems like there's a protein
issue.
>> see this happening in real time by the
way. This company goes public and the
pushback. People could just see
everything changing.
And they stopped going in the same way.
And that's the reason why they're coming
back and having to offer protein. Again
though, the fact that we're talking
about how much salmon or chicken you're
getting on your salad from Sweetgreen
highlights how little else we have to
really chew over, not no pun intended,
to try to gauge the appetite of
consumers.
>> you're paying $20 for a salad, which I
don't know, I don't go to Sweetgreen,
but I think it's about $20 for a salad,
you will actually monitor how much
protein they're [music] putting in said
salad.
>> Sweetgreen down in the free market this
morning. Let's get you another call from
Piper Sandler upgrading Expedia to
neutral citing accelerating bookings and
[music] better operating leverage. It's
a completely different story for the US
consumer. Expedia up by close to 13% and
finally Bernstein raising its price
target on Warner Brothers Discovery to
2350 arguing it's a quote must-have
asset. The stock is up by 0.5%. Let's
turn to Tesla. Shareholders going all in
on Elon Musk with analysts feeling quite
confident.
For Musk and for Tesla, this is an
important chapter. These are not targets
that are just ridiculous. Obviously
extremely optimistic. Musk is ultimately
really going to be the key driver to get
there and I think investors recognize
that. That 75% was a huge vote of
confidence and I think basically saying
like you're a leader, we do stuff. Wall
Street now waiting to see if Musk can
deliver on major targets still ahead of
us. Bloomberg's Ed Ludlow joins us now
for more. Ed, that was a big win for
Tesla and Elon Musk. It was. I mean, the
75% vote in favor is an interesting
figure. You do take into account that
Elon Musk, his brother Kimball Musk who
sits on the board, and the other board
members were able to vote their shares.
And that's I think about 16%. So, do the
math on that.
But it doesn't reconcile for many
investors if you look at the reaction
for those that voted no on the
institutional side, the idea of key man
risk because we're still in the same
position we were in last week where the
board is saying that only Elon Musk has
the skill set to achieve the things that
they've set for him. Elon Musk says that
he wants more voting power and the the
tranches all the way over the next 10
years can take him to 25% stake. Um but
those that are most concerned about that
say, well, that doesn't address our
dilution or the key man risk element.
even though part of the package of
course has Elon Musk focused on a
succession plan by tranches 11 and 12.
But there's a lot of outstanding
questions that the main thing, John,
which you will have seen is that Musk
did what he always does, which is to
keep investors looking to the horizon.
>> So, Ed, I think Lisa asked the most
important question to Cathie Wood
yesterday. Lisa asked Cathie, what would
you do if this didn't pass? Would you
sell the stock? And the question and the
answer, I think the question was direct
and the answer was quite muddled and it
wasn't clear what she would do if this
hadn't passed. It has passed. So, I'll
ask a different question. Just reverse
engineer it. Ed, the people who voted
no, are they going to sell the stock now
it's passed?
Yeah, I I I we spoke to Calpers
yesterday, America's largest public
pension plan, and they basically said,
well, our answer is that we're long-term
shareholders. And in the event of a no
vote, which is academic now, there would
be some short-term pain in the stock.
But because we are long-term
shareholders, we'd look past that, which
I think kind of answers the question. Um
you know, Dan Ives in the clip that you
played made a very key point, which is
that the operational and financial
milestones are mandatory. They are very
real. And whether you say, okay, 20
million vehicles delivered or build 1
million robo
taxis or 1 million robots, the financial
goals to achieve $400 billion in
adjusted earnings or to take the company
to $8.5 trillion of market cap would
represent outperformance against
historical norms,
which is where a lot of the no voters
put their faith at least that in the
event that their their
grievances with the package's
composition weren't heard and it was a
yes vote, which we got.
Ed, how much is this going to be a
template for other big tech companies?
Gosh, I I I
how how does one answer that question? I
mean, what I went and did is looked at
the 2018 package, which was structured
in tranches in a similar way, but the
scale completely different, right? That
was $58 billion of dollar value award.
We're talking about $1 trillion um
of award. Um but again, you know, that's
been the headline for the many weeks
that we've been talking about this.
At issue really for Musk, for the
shareholders that voted no, was voting
power. And so, if you look at
comparisons of compensation or voting
control, I go to Jensen Huang at Nvidia.
He is paid handsomely to run Nvidia, but
I believe he only holds 3% of the
company. And so, many when they said
that they voted no because they compared
and contrasted against comparable
companies, which is what Calpers
argument was. I believe when you guys
spoke to the New York State Controller,
he made a similar point.
There isn't a comparison because the
existing voting power that Musk has
along with the board was already
elevated. So, to take to 25%, I don't
think there would be any sort of
comparison be it the S&P 500 level or in
in similar companies. Are there any
similar companies, you know, John and I
have debated is this a car company or a
tech company? And I've got about 30
seconds. If this was a politician, we'd
talk about a major mandate and we'd be
going through the politician's first
moves. What's Elon Musk's first move
with this major mandate, I guess, from
Tesla shareholders?
Well, the first thing that jumped out of
the post-result commentary was that
Tesla will turn to 50% annualized
growth, which we've been that it's a
company that starts doing nearer to 3
million vehicles a year than two. That
was important because again, the board
has set him the goal 20 million
vehicles. They just only had their first
ever 500,000 vehicle quarter. You can do
the math on it. They're going to have to
hit that average every quarter for the
next decade.
And so ramping up and evidence that
they'll do that seemed important at the
time.
Ed Ludlow with the latest. I wonder if
this means less politics, much less
politics in the future of Elon [music]
Musk. I definitely think so, but what's
interesting is remember Elon Musk was
one of those individuals that helped
especially financially back Trump.
What's going to happen in the midterms
in 2028 when the Republicans may need
his help? Up next on the program, we'll
catch up with Stephanie Roth of Wolfe
Research with the shutdown leading to
another payrolls Friday
>> [music]
>> without the payrolls. Plus Danny has
your morning movers. KKR getting a boost
from strong third-quarter results. That
stock up 4%.
The open and close of that 60 minutes
away, equity futures [music] near
session lows down by 0.4% on the S&P
500, negative by 0.6, almost 0.7 on the
Nasdaq. As we count down to the cash
open, let's get you some morning movers,
some single names. Let's cross [music]
over to Danny for more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Some read on travel companies.
Make of this what you will in as you put
it this cherry-picking season, but
they've been really strong. Expedia
upgrading their outlook, shares up 12.12
and 1/2% or a little bit more than that
at the moment. Basically saying that the
holiday travel looked very strong, that
they had good momentum into October and
beyond. And they said that they're not
seeing any effects of a government
shutdown weighing on travel, too. Very
similar story for Airbnb, also very
strong earnings and outlook that was
better than expected. And at the same
time, momentum that will carry them
through to the holiday season. [music]
For them, one of the things that really
helped them was in August they
introduced a reserve now, pay later type
program for them. So that seemed to
really help juice up some of their
bookings. So shares up 4.3%.
Elsewhere, we got numbers from one of
the other big buyout giants, and it was
KKR. The bright spot for them was the
fact that they had the best fundraising
quarter
since 2021. This is a time that is
supposed to be difficult for private
capital players to be fundraising
because of all the vintages from 2021
they have to work through that they're
still holding on to. But they raised $43
billion, half of that, more than half,
came from credit. So those shares up 4%
John. Danny, thank you. Thanks for the
update. That stock's had a terrible
year. I say that stock has had a
terrible year deliberately because the
company, based on the earnings, same
thing with Apollo earlier this week,
numbers have been pretty decent. Stock
at times has been a quite difficult
story. It's been a commentary on
people's fears about private credit and
what [music] they could be missing. And
that really has been at the play for a
lot of people even though the earnings
aren't showing it. And that is a sort of
interesting contradiction. How scary is
private credit if the actual earnings
are proving to be quite positive?
>> The numbers from KKR and Apollo through
the week, pretty decent, better than
good in some cases. Let's turn to the
economy. The shutdown-driven data
blackout leading to another payrolls
Friday without the payrolls. The most
Mike McKee doesn't know what to do with
himself. Good morning, Mike. I know,
it's a little bit like Christmas without
Santa Claus, I'd say, you know, data
without the
jobs day without data is kind of hard to
parse. But Bloomberg users never give
up. They have continued to put out
forecasts, and here's what we would have
had, according to the Bloomberg
consensus, if we actually got a jobs
report. The expectation was for -23,000.
Now, the reason for that is because a
lot of federal workers went off payrolls
who were laid off by DOJ in the month of
October. So that might have even been a
low guesstimate. Private jobs, 40,000.
You can see the difference there is that
private was okay, and that kind of
matches up with what we saw from ADP.
The unemployment rate expected to tick
up a little bit. We even have a whisper
number, 22,000. We just don't have
anything that they're whispering about
specifically. So we're turning to the
alternative data as we always do. State
jobless claims, we got the raw data last
night. New Mexico, the only state that
didn't contribute, so it was a little
easier to figure this out when we
applied the modifications that one does.
228,000, that's a gain of about 10,000.
It is up, but it isn't a lot. Doesn't
tell you necessarily we're seeing a
change in the way the labor market is
behaving. Revelio Labs sees 9,000 jobs
lost. ADP, as we mentioned, 42,000 plus,
but they only do private jobs. And both
ISM manufacturing and services this week
said the labor markets in those areas
are contracting. So it's a really mixed
picture. We've had one Fed official this
morning saying
that we should be very careful going
forward and don't know what they're
going to do about the 10. That's Philip
Jefferson, he's the vice chair.
John Williams is saying that our star is
lower than other people think. So he
might be a vote for a cut. But that's
where we are at the moment with no data.
We're just kind of looking at our empty
stockings over the fireplace.
>> some presents, Mike McKee. Some gifts.
>> Mike McKee. Mike, of the Fed officials
that have spoken this week, have they
given strong indications of what's
leading their decision-making right now,
what data points they are putting more
weight on versus others?
Well, most of them have looked to the
labor market and the idea that the labor
market could be weakening for what's
driving them. Although Philip Jefferson
did reference the
the the inflation numbers, as did Beth
Hammack yesterday, the Cleveland Fed
president who's been very hawkish,
saying that they shouldn't cut any more
because inflation is still rising. Then
you have John Williams kind of looking
at growth and the idea that if growth is
strong enough, we can still cut rates
and not worry about what's happening
with the labor market or inflation at
this point. Mike McKee, appreciate the
update. Mike McKee there. Thank you,
sir. Stephanie Roth of Wolfe Research
writing this. Data this week has been
disappointing. The labor market has
decelerated, but it's not clear it's
getting worse. Stephanie joins us now
for more. Steph, good morning. Good
morning.
>> Any signs of stabilization?
Yeah, I mean what we saw ADP looks
better than where it's been. Of course,
we're all now focusing on tier three
data because that's all we have to focus
on. The Challenger numbers have have
spooked a a lot of people, but I have to
say that is based on headlines. And we
knew that UPS, for example, that was a
big driver of the warehousing number.
That has happened throughout the course
of this year largely through attrition.
We knew the Amazon number had had had
come out, that was part of that, the the
October data. So our sense is that the
the labor market has decelerated, that's
what we're picking up here, but it
doesn't appear to be actually
necessarily getting worse. And then the
picture for the economy on a go-forward
basis or is actually pretty decent. We
have likely tariff uncertainty is is is
fading to some extent. We know that we
kind of have a floor in terms of
tariffs. We have financial conditions
have eased. We have fiscal stimulus is
going to have a supporting impact on the
low-end consumer. So even though we're
in a a place where the economy is kind
of sluggish, the the factors are looking
pretty decent for 2026.
>> You said something about the Challenger
job announcements or layoff planned
cuts. And I think that it's really
important, the idea that a bulk of this
could come from UPS and Amazon, both of
which were reported and has to do with
warehousing [clears throat]
on the UPS side and artificial
intelligence on the Amazon side. How
much are we conflating a single-name
story with a broader market trend where
AI is already taking people's jobs?
Yeah, I mean I I think that's the case
to some extent. And the Amazon numbers
aren't that large relative to the size
of its workforce. So even though we've
seen some of these layoff announcements
that are tied to to AI, some of this
that ends up coming out through
attrition like the UPS. And
we're not it's not entirely clear that
that AI is has really been taking that
many jobs so far. But looking forward,
it might be. But if you look at a
correlation between AI usage by industry
and the slowdown in payrolls growth, you
don't see much of a correlation outside
of tech, professional services, and then
a little bit of finance. So it's not
necessarily the explanatory story yet.
In the absence of nonfarm payrolls data,
a lot of people are thinking big, asking
large questions, filling time with other
things. I'm just wondering how much
people are trying to understand the AI
growth story and how much it's propping
up and frankly masking the weakness that
we're seeing in other pockets,
particularly from and we keep talking
about fast casual restaurants just
simply because that's the data that we
have. But you know, it sort of speaks to
a really lopsided economy heavily
weighted to the AI story.
So I mean I think the the case-shaped
economy story is right, but it's not
necessarily the bottom part of that K is
getting that much worse. We're just
hearing a lot of company announcements
related to that. We don't have any other
data to the up to the to the other side,
which tends to to capture the broader
picture of the consumer.
And then the AI story is driving a a
decent portion of of growth this year.
Our estimates are that it's nearly a
quarter of the growth, if not maybe a
tiny bit less than that, but it's
certainly not half of the growth, and it
is part of the economy. There are a lot
of people who are employed and and
investing in in CapEx, and that is a
support for growth that is durable.
Stephanie, I want to pick up here on
your point that the market has kind of
and investors have kind of moved past
the tariff story.
What if AEPA though does get struck down
by the Supreme Court?
Then they'll recreate it. So what we're
really talking about here is about a
hundred billion dollars windfall to
companies potentially, depending on how
this all plays out in terms of tariff
refunds they might be eligible to get.
Otherwise, on a forward-looking basis,
the administration is is likely to
recreate the tariff structure very
similar to how it stands today, which is
why the bond market doesn't necessarily
have to react so significantly.
>> But it'll take a lot longer to recreate
that structure using 232s, 301s. When
would the hit be on consumers if they
have to recreate that structure?
I don't know if it will end up being
that big of a hit on consumers in the
sense that companies have raised their
prices. They're not going to lower their
prices as a result. We're not going to
see much volatility depending on how the
the tariff structure works. So,
companies have slowly moved their
pricing mechanism higher. They know,
especially if if it ends up getting
struck down, they know that it will
largely be recreated. The administration
will certainly communicate that, in
which case the the pricing effects will
continue to kind of be the case, and
then companies will maybe more slowly
pass through the price increases. Our
estimates suggest that about 60, a
little above 60% of the tariffs that we
that are implemented and expected have
been absorbed by parts of the supply
chain. So, it's the the exporter, the
retailer, and the consumer. So, we've
already gone through a lot of it. There
is certainly more to come, which is why
we should see upward pressure on prices
for the next 6 months. Was October Chair
Powell's last rate cut?
No, I think he'll probably do one more.
Yeah, just the one. I think he'll do one
more, and then we'll probably get an
additional one to two beyond that. You
see a difference between the leadership
once he's gone. We're going to have a
more dovish Fed after May, or do you
think it's going to be just as
conflicted, just as gridlocked?
>> Just just as gridlocked. I think we'll
see, of course, that the chair may be
dovish themselves, but that doesn't mean
the committee is going to go alongside
that. We've seen a committee that is
certainly divided. That's been quite
clear over the past couple of months.
So, our expectation is they're not going
to really change policy that much as a
result. And yes, they probably will want
to cut a couple more times beyond that
just to get to something that they think
is closer to neutral.
And the economy will probably be
in a decent place throughout much of
next year. Cleveland Fed President Beth
Hammack making a name for herself. Think
she gets a vote next year? Yeah, talking
about inflation being a primary concern
and talking about how they're not all
that restrictive, if at all. And that, I
think, was the part the primary point
that a lot of people are picking up on.
What does that mean about the terminal
rate? And exactly to Stephanie's point,
maybe they can't cut that much more.
Lisa's worried about armies of humanoid
robots, if you're interested. That's
where the conversation has gone this
morning. Without payrolls, this is where
the mind wanders. [laughter]
In fairness, we're talking about someone
who could make a trillion dollars based
on humanoid robot armies that he doesn't
want anyone else to control unless he
gets too crazy, but he wants people to
be able to fire him should he get too
crazy.
>> [laughter]
>> Privately, I am. Yeah, I mean, What
happens when the sovereign loses a
monopoly on violence? 100%. You know,
You keep bringing it up because it's
compelling to you, because it's
something realistic.
>> of state legitimacy and all of that, you
know.
>> You already Right there with your brain.
Honestly, you put this together with
Nvidia having international policy
control and this question of the
influence there, you start talking about
humanoid robots that could potentially
fight our wars. I mean, this is
increasingly a question out there. I
don't think we need to go here, so I'm
just going to now Okay, so on a college
campus somewhere going to that political
theory class getting ready to have this
conversation with their professor or the
>> Yes. [laughter] Is that Is that what's
happening at home? Is that what he's
thinking about? Maybe. Okay. All right,
Stephanie, good to see you. It's good to
be here.
>> Thanks for dropping by. Thank you.
Stephanie Roth of Wolfe Research with
the latest. No payrolls, of course, this
morning, but plenty of debate on this
labor market. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
Brief. Here's Yahaira. Hey, Yahaira. Hi,
John. Elise Stefanik is entering the
race for governor of New York. In a post
on X, she called New York Governor Kathy
Hochul the worst governor in the country
and pledged to make the state [music]
affordable and safe. The Republican
congresswoman was weighing a governor
run for months, according to sources.
The New York gubernatorial election is
set for November 2026. [music]
Meanwhile, First Brands Group is
desperately seeking access to $600
million in remaining bankruptcy
financing. Lawyers warning that without
[music] the rest of the $1.1 billion
loan, it's game over and the company
will immediately liquidate. Holdout
creditors, including Onset Financial,
are fighting the deal, claiming the firm
stripped them of collateral. The
high-stakes hearing continues [music]
today.
And Pop Mart shares closing lower in
Asia trading after a clip went viral of
an employee saying a product seems
expensive [music]
during a live stream. This triggered a
social media backlash against the Labubu
maker's prices. The controversy
coincides with a broader cooling of
Labubu resale prices. A Pop Mart
spokesperson said they are investigating
the viral [music] video. That's your
Bloomberg Brief, John. Yahaira, thank
you. Appreciate it. Thanks for this
morning. [music] I'm next on the
program. We'll set you up for the day
ahead, plus we'll catch up with Jeff
Rosenberg of BlackRock breaking down the
health of the labor market. From New
York City this morning, good morning.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
You have to look at the totality of
data. I do miss payrolls. Let's spend a
second saying
it was good data. I just never thanked
it before, and now 2 months in a row we
haven't had it. There are these
structural positives, right? You talk
about the soft landing. Companies are
solid, and they're adapting to all
[music] these macro shocks, tariffs,
immigration. They're managing, and
that's why earnings have been rock
solid. For now, we're in a soft landing.
I think owning credit, fixed income's
doing what it's supposed to do.
Earnings have been rock solid. That was
Priya Misra of JPMorgan [music] Asset
Management, but there has been some
pushback in this equity market to that
earning story. Palantir, the poster
child for that. Lisa went through a
range of other companies as well have
reported earnings this week, and the
stock market has pushed back even though
those earnings have been okay. Broader
market on the S&P 500, we're down by a
third of 1%. On the Nasdaq, we're down
by 0.5 on the session, down today, and
down on the week. On the Nasdaq 100, we
are poised for the biggest weekly loss
going back to early April. That's the
stock story. In the bond market, 2-year,
[music] 10-year, 30-year shaping up as
follows so far this morning. Yields up
by just a basis point on 10s to 4.0986%.
[music]
As we count you down to the opening
bell, here's the trading diary, a look
into the weekend and into next week.
Today, the Senate expected to hold
another vote on the stopgap funding bill
at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time. U Mich
consumer sentiment, 3:00 p.m. Eastern.
Fed Governor Waller speaks. Look out for
that going into the weekend. On Monday,
earnings from [music] Paramount,
Skydance. Tuesday, the G7 foreign
ministers meeting kicks off over in
Canada. On Wednesday, another round of
Fed speak. We're pretty light
on data through next [music] week. Yeah,
and that seems to be a feature of the
past couple of weeks. And one thing that
I do wonder is how much we do get the
data, [music]
we can actually look back and have any
clarity about the moment that we're in,
because right now it is a muddle. Let's
stay on the labor market. Investors
still leaning on private data for
signals as the shutdown [music]
continues. Jeff Rosenberg of BlackRock
saying more recent wage gains have been
led by the highest wage earners. It is
those wage earners' declines this month
that point to a softening in labor
market. Jeff joins us now for more.
Jeff, that note's important. Are you
seeing a deterioration?
Yeah, you know, it's so interesting to
listen to Priya. We used to work
together, her pining for the halcyon
days when we had the payroll report. So,
you know, taking a a much closer look at
the alternative data sources, the
private data sources. The alternative
data that I'm mentioning there, we've
had a lot of success scraping the wage
inflation data or the wage posting data
and extracting from it wage inflation
measures. And one of the most important
stories that I think everyone is aware
of it when you came out of COVID, it was
the bottom end that led the wage gains.
And that shifted, and we've been in a
period where, you know, you guys have
talked about it, the K-shaped recovery.
Talked about it a lot in this program.
But that shifted where the bottom end
was was really weak, and it was the high
end that was holding up. And the latest
intervention
innovation in the data, we we saw a
little bit of a strength in the the high
end
over the last 2 months. That's that's
come out of the data, and that's come
back down. It's kind of brought the
aggregate wage data back in line with
where we were in the pre-COVID period.
So, it's not that bad, but you had had
this period of of really aggregate wages
that were above. Now you're coming back
in line, and the and the change is a
softening, and that softening is is
interestingly coming more from the high
end than the bottom end. Jeff, you're a
PM. Is that sufficient reason to dial
down risk?
So, one of the things, you know, as a PM
in our process is, you know, having a
lot of inputs to the process. And so,
we're talking about one of what might be
100 different inputs. So, we're going to
weight that appropriately and not react
to just one, but it is an important data
point. And what does it What does it
point to?
You know, it points to what a lot of
what we're seeing in the market pricing
that that most of what we're getting out
of the alternative and the private data
sources are kind of validating what we
had as the last reading, which this is
the slowdown
in the in the labor market. So, it
confirms a lot of what the other data
source sources say. And when it all
lines up, yeah, it it it kind of points
you into into the one direction, which
is, you know, 70% odds of the Fed
continuing its cutting cycle here, you
know, when we talk in December. Jeff,
how much is a risk asset market really
depending on that rate cut? I mean, it
sort of seems like we're talking about
two different worlds, whether it's the
AI trade and risk assets that aren't
necessarily hedged to the underlying
economy or jobs market. Then we're
talking about labor market data that is
affecting what the Fed does. Is there a
sense that this risk market needs at
least another rate cut this year from
the Federal Reserve to keep on going?
You know, I think it depends on how
risky you're talking about in terms of
the risk market. You know, fixed income,
you know, the investment grade side,
it's going to be much more dependent on
that rate picture because there's just
less credit spread and so total returns
are going to be much more about the rate
side. I think when you start getting
into the riskier parts of the market
like high yield, there's more credit
spread, it's more credit sensitive. So
that rate cut, you know, whether they
cut or they don't cut in December and
all the things we gnash our teeth about,
uh you know, that's going to be less of
an impact for that part of the part of
the portfolio. And the equity market and
the equity market outlook is going to
be, you know, much much more important
for the the the riskier parts of fixed
income like high yield. Jeff, since
nothing really happened to cause this
momentum unwind and we actually got
earnings from big tech that showed
positive returns, are you buying right
now? I mean, is this something that
you're seeing as something that's just a
momentary blip that gives you an
opportunity to trade around?
You know,
if you look at what we were coming into,
uh you know, kind of end of September,
first week of October,
uh you know, there's there's aggregate
measures and there's a lot of focus on
on the aggregate, you know, some
headlines about Shiller's cyclically
adjusted cap. Uh
but you look under the surface and you
saw some very extreme moves in in terms
of valuation. We talked about this as
the market moving from optimism
from the post-liberation day concerns,
that was kind of June, July, to when the
Fed got involved
when they started to signal a bigger
preference for labor markets to drive
their decision-making. That really
shifted the market from optimism to
euphoria. So valuations got very
extended. They got particularly extended
in in in the cross-section and
differential characteristics, a lot of
high-risk pricing uh in the equity
market, a lot of anti-beta, which means
people were really not looking for
defense, they were really on the offense
and they got a little overextended and I
think that's what you're seeing here in
the pullback. You know, absent a big
change to the macro uh outlook, that can
be a buying opportunity. You know, we're
not buying today, you know, we're going
to see how long this uh revaluation
uh plays out, but you know, without a
big change in the macro outlook, this is
really kind of a pullback from what was
some very extended uh euphoric type
valuations in the equity market.
>> Jeff, just a final question for me. Is
there a sweet spot in the market right
now for you? Somewhere you see an
asymmetry of risk, somewhere you want to
be, somewhere you're comfortable?
Yeah, I mean, if we talk about kind of
the risk side and the risky side, you
know, on on on the on the risk-free
side, the sweet spot I think is still
kind of in that middle part of the
curve, you know, fives to sevens. You
know, the Fed here is asymmetric to talk
about, you know, your your question. You
know, they're going to be very
responsive. Right now they're talking
about normalization and so that's giving
a little bit of support to that part of
the curve. But if normalization gets
shocked, you were talking in the earlier
part of the segment, you know, the
dependency on consumption to the wealth
effect, right? This is the inverted
market. The stock market cares more
about the uh sorry, I just I just got
that wrong. The economy cares more about
the stock market than the stock market
cares about the economy because what's
driving the economy is consumption and
wealth effect. So if you got a pullback
there, you know, the Fed's going to be
very responsive and that that part is
not normalization, that's more of a Fed
cutting cycle and that part of the curve
initially I think will will benefit. On
the risk risky side, you know, it's a
carry story. Uh it's asymmetric to the
downside, but as you're talking about,
earnings are strong, corporate balance
sheets are strong, the economy in
measurements, we've kind of eased off of
these concerns that we had earlier in
this year and so that's a carry trade.
You know, you understand that that's
income against downside, but the
downside seems pretty limited so you can
take that carry. Hi Jeff, good to see
you as always. Maybe next time we do
this we've got some data. I don't know,
maybe. Jeff Rosenberg
>> at BlackRock. We can only hope. We can
only hope. His comment there about how
if the stock market sells off, it will
have this transmission
transmission mechanism to consumption,
so the Fed's going to come in and do
something about it is the reason why
there is a Fed put always when the
market goes down. Andrew Hollandhorst
though going into the weekend is talking
about the base case as the government
reopens next week, but a further delay
[music] could push data releases into
December. What does the Federal Reserve
do with that?
>> still looking for rate cuts by the way,
for what it's worth. Coming up on
Monday, Lori Calvasina of RBC, Sarah
Hunt of Alpine Saxon words, Greg Badow
of BNP, Lindsey Piegza of Stifel. From
New York City this morning, good
morning. Have a wonderful weekend. This
was Bloomberg Surveillance.